95
Too often a beginning bodybuilder has to do his training secretly either because his parents don want sonny-boy to `` lift all those old barbell things because `` you l stunt your growth or because childish taunts from his schoolmates , like `` Hey lookit Mr . America ; haddya gonna do with all those muscles ( of which he has none at the time ) ? After all , a guy gotta have a little ego ! Therefore it a genuine pleasure to tell you about an entirely happy bodybuilder who has never had to train in secret has never heard one unkind word from his parents and never has been taunted by his schoolmates ! This happy , always smiling lad with the sunny disposition is our new Junior Mr . Canada -- Henri De Courcy . Far from discouraging Henri , his parents urge him on to greater and greater accomplishments . Instead of admonishing him to let the weights alone they personally took him to that master Montreal bodybuilding authority , Professor Roland Claude . And they couldn have entrusted Henri to better hands because `` le professeur knows his muscles from the sterno-cleido mastoideus of the neck right down to the tibialis anticus of the leg and better still , he knows just what exercises work best for them and what Weider principles to combine them with for fast , fast muscle growth . That because the good professor teaches only Weider methods at his famous Montreal Health Studio which is located at 1821 Mt . Royal East in Montreal . Undoubtedly you have read the case histories of some of his prize-winning pupils ( every pupil has a physique title of some kind or other ) . There Gaetan D mours who is our newest Mr . Canada ; ean-Paul Senesac , whose story appeared here two issues ago ; ack Boissoneault , who was with us last month ; harles Harve , who recently won the `` Most Muscular Man subdivision award in the Mr . Canada event ; nd a host of others . Yesiree , the professor knows his muscles ! Now when Henri was just 12 he was only 4 ' 10 tall and weighed an astounding 72 pounds , and his greatest desire was to pack on some weight . About that time he began reading Mr . America and Muscle Builder and he learned of the famous Weider way to fast weight gaining . Seeing so many illustrations and reading so many testimonials to the value of Quick-Wate and Super-Protein , those two wonder-working Weider food supplements , he decided to try them and see what they could do for him . Well , sir they did real great ! For in almost less time than it takes to tell it , Henri bodyweight was increasing rapidly . Of course he did some exercising . He crazy about water skiing and swimming and this vigorous exercise in conjunction with the added food supplements packed pounds of solid muscle on his skinny frame . Henri has always had shapely legs from swimming and water skiing and really doesn have to work them very much . But he was totally dissatisfied with his upper body . It was muscular but it wasn symmetrical . `` A real ' nothing ' torso , says Henri . `` It never seemed to widen . It just got longer and longer . That when he went to Professor Claude . And at once Claude saw what the trouble was and he knew just how to correct it . In his gym the professor has some of the most `` knocked out equipment since Vic Tanny . Mr . Claude is a specialist in torso development and he has long favored the now-famous Weider Push-Pull Super-Set technique in which one exercise of the Super-Set is a pressing or `` pushing movement which accents one sector of a muscle group in a specific way , followed by a `` pulling exercise which works the opposing sector of the same muscle group . So right away Claude introduced Henri to his famous `` moon bench and proceeded to teach him his first Push-Pull Super-Set consisting of the wide-grip Straight-Arm Pullover ( the `` pull part of the Push-Pull Super-Set ) which dramatically widens the ribcage and strongly affects the muscles of the upper back and chest and the collar-to-collar Bench Press which specifically works on the chest to build those wide , Reeves-type `` gladiator pecs , while stimulating the upper lats and frontal deltoids . As you can see , in this Push-Pull Super Set the entire chest-back-shoulder area is vigorously exercised in alternate sectors by alternate exercises so the complete torso remains pumped-up all the time ! Now when Henri has completed four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No . 1 , the professor allows him about a five-minute rest period before starting him on four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No . 2 . Super-Set No . 2 is made up of similar exercises , but this time done with dumbbells , and using both `` moon and flat benches . The `` push exercise of this Push-Pull Super-Set is the Bench Press done with elbows well pulled back and with a greater downward stretch of the pectorals not possible with the barbell variation . You need the barbell variation to build width and mass in the pecs . The dumbbell variation develops a most classically sculptured outline to the Aj . The `` pull exercise in this Super-Set is the one-dumbbell Bent-Arm Pullover . ( Note how strongly the upper lats and serratus are worked in this fine exercise because of the pin-point concentration of force which the dumbbell variation affords ) . In the third Push-Pull Super-Set the `` push exercise is the widegrip Pushup Between Bars , while the `` pull exercise is the Moon Bench Lateral Raise with bent arms . The Pushup done in this manner is the greatest pectoral-ribcage stretcher ever invented ! This is true only if a very wide grip is used and only when the greatest possible stretch is achieved . You l know when you e made the greatest stretch because your shoulder blades will touch ! As you see , the professor has designed a piece of apparatus that forces the bodybuilder to use a w-i-d-e grip . He has to ; e just can do anything about it at all ! But as you can also see , it not a painful exercise at all , because Henri De Courcy -- the `` happy bodybuilder -- looks as though he were having the time of his life ! The last exercise of Roland Claude prescribed program for Henri is a single exercise , done in individual sets with a bit longer pause between sets . By this time Henri entire chest-back-lat-shoulder area is pumped-up to almost bursting point , and Claude takes time to do a bit more pectoral-front deltoid shaping work . He has Henri do from four to six sets of the Incline Bench Press ( note the high incline ) . This gives a wide flare to the pecs , causing them to flow dramatically upward into deltoids and dramatically downward into the serratus and Aj . This is the kind of chest that invariably wins contests ; hat steel-edged `` carved-out-of-solid rock looks of the great champions . So with four complete Push-Pull Super-Sets No . 1 , four of No . 2 , four of No . 3 and four to six sets of the Incline Bench Press , you can see that Henri De Courcy has had a terrific mass-building , muscle-shaping , torso-defining workout that cannot be improved upon . Physique contests are rarely won on muscle size alone . Rarer still is a Mr . America or Mr . Universe of true Herculean build . The aspects of physical development that catch the judges ' eyes and which rightfully influence their decisions are symmetry and that hallmark of the true champion -- superior definition of the muscles . Now good definition is one thing that all of us can acquire with occasional high-set , high-rep , light-weight workouts . But contest definition -- that dramatic muscular separation of every muscle group that seems as though it must have been carved by a sculptor chisel -- is something quite different . This comes not alone from high-set , high-rep training , but from certain definition-specialization exercises which the champion selects for himself with the knowledge of exactly what works best for him . Often these exercises work well for some bodybuilders but less spectacularly for others . Because they are `` minority exercises and have but a limited appeal they soon find themselves in the limbo of the forgotten . Only when the newest Mr . America or Mr . Universe discovers them and puts them into practice are we reacquainted with them and once again see how effective they really are . The exercise I shall discuss in this -- the first of a new series of articles on muscle definition-specialization of a particular body part -- is the One Leg Lunge . Why it was ever forgotten for even a moment I cannot say because it works perfectly for everyone , no matter whether he has short or long thigh-bone lengths ! It is the one exercise that drastically influences the definition of the thighs at the hipline -- that mark of the champion that sets him apart from all other bodybuilders ; criterion of muscle `` drama that is unforgettable to judges and audiences alike ; he facet of muscular development that wins prizes . Definition of the thighs at the uppermost part is quite commonly seen in most championship Olympic lifters which is easily understandable . The One Leg Lunge is a split and all lifters practice this in their regular workouts . But for purely definition purposes -- used in conjunction with your regular Squatting , Leg Curling , Leg Extensor programs -- a heavy weight is not needed . Indeed , a lighter weight works much better because a greater , more extensive split can be performed . Used in several sets of high reps once or twice each week it will not be long before your entire upper leg takes on a razor-sharp definition in which the muscles look like wire cables writhing and twisting under the skin ! Really there is no reason why this fine exercise should not find its way into your leg program at all times , for the following suggestions show why it is so effective : 1 . It a complete thigh contraction-extension exercise . 2 . It places terrific tension on the leg muscles from start to finish of each repetition . 3 . It improves over-all balance and control for the bodybuilder , and helps to make Squats more easily and more correctly performed . 4 . It increases flexibility of the legs . 5 . It speeds muscle growth and power development even for the advanced bodybuilder because each hip and leg is exercised separately , thus enabling a massive , concentrated effort to be focused on each . You l need your Weider Power Stands for this fine exercise and here the way it done : 1 . Place your Power Stands in position and adjust their height so that this will correspond to the height of your shoulders when you are in a deep leg split as for a heavy Clean . 2 . Place a suitably-loaded barbell across them ; rasp the bar ( which will rest against the back of your neck ) ; xtend your feet forward and backward until you are in a deep leg split . Now raise the weight by straightening your front leg , without moving your feet . When the front knee is straight and locked , allow it to bend again until you feel the bar come lightly into contact with the sides of the Power Stands . 3 . After you have taken a breather , reverse the position of your legs so that the front thigh of the previous exercise is now to the rear , and the rear thigh now to the front , and perform the same movement in the same manner . That the One-Leg Lunge in a nutshell . You should have a couple of training partners to stand by when you make your first experiments just for safety . You should also begin this exercise with a very light barbell until you become accustomed to it balance-wise . Oh , you l wobble and weave quite a bit at first . But don worry . Before your first training experiment has ended there will be a big improvement and almost before you know it you l be raising and lowering yourself just like a veteran ! Although I suggested that you hold the bar at the back of the neck there no reason why you shouldn make some experiments with the bar held in front of the neck . Squat-style lifters and leg-split lifters would both benefit enormously by practicing those variations providing that they remember to make alternate sets with the left and right leg to the front . 
The most beautiful bed of pansies I e seen was in a South Dakota yard on a sizzling day . Pansies are supposed to like it cool , but those great velvety flowers were healthy and perky in the glaring sun . I sought out the gardener and asked him what he did to produce such beauties in that weather . He seemed puzzled by my question . `` I just love them , he said . The more I talked with him , the more convinced I became that that was the secret of their riotous blooming . Of course his love was expressed in intelligent care . He planted the pansy seeds himself , buying them from a pansy specialist . These specialists , I learned , have done a great deal of work to improve the size and health of the plants and the resulting flowers . Their seeds produce vigorous blooming plants half again the size of the unimproved strains . I asked him if he took seeds from his own plants . Occasionally , when he had an unusual flower that he wanted more of he did ; ut pansy seeds , he told me , soon `` run down . It best to buy them fresh from a dealer who is working to improve them . His soil was `` nothing special , just prairie land , but he had harrowed in compost until it was loose , spongy and brown-black . I fingered it and had the feeling of adequacy that comes with the right texture , tilth and body . It isn easy to describe it , but every gardener knows it when his fingers touch such soil . Nothing is easier to grow from seed than pansies . They germinate quickly , the tiny plants appearing in a week , and grow along lustily . It doesn really matter which month of the year you sow them , but they germinate best when they have a wide variation of temperature , very warm followed by cool in the same 24 hours . I like to make a seedbed right in the open , though many people start them successfully in cold frames . Pansies don have to be coddled ; hey rather have things rugged , with only moderate protection on the coldest days . If you do use a cold frame be sure that its ventilation is adequate . For my seedbed I use good garden soil with a little sand added to encourage rooting . I dig it , rake it smooth , sow the seeds and wet them down with a fog spray . Then I cover the sowing with a board . This keeps it cool and moist and protects it from birds . Ants carry away the seeds so better be sure that there are no ant hills nearby . When the first sprinkling of green appears I remove the board . A light , porous mulch applied now keeps the roots cool and the soil soft during these early days of growth . I like sawdust for this , or hay . When they have 4 to 6 leaves and are thrifty little plants , it time to set them out where they are to remain . Every time you transplant a pansy you cause its flowers to become smaller . The moral is : don transplant it any oftener than you must . As soon as they are large enough to move , I put mine 9 inches apart where they are to bloom . I put a little scoop of pulverized phosphate rock or steamed bone meal into each hole with the plant . That encourages rooting , and the better developed the roots , the larger and more plentiful the flowers . Pansies are gluttons . I doubt if it is possible to overfeed them . I spade lots of compost into their bed ; acking that , decayed manure spread over the bed is fine . One year I simply set the plants in the remains of a compost pile , to which a little sand had been added , and I had the most beautiful pansies in my , or any of my neighbors ' experience . In addition to the rich soil they benefit by feedings of manure water every other week , diluted to the color of weak tea . As a substitute for this , organic fertilizer dissolved in water to half the strength in the directions , may be used . They need mulch . We put a light mulch over the seedlings ; ow we must use a heavy one . Three inches of porous material will do a good job of keeping weeds down and the soil moist and cool . When winter comes be ready with additional mulch . I like hay for this and apply it so that only the tops of the plants show right after a good frost . That keeps in the cold , retains moisture and prevents the heaving of alternate freezing and thawing . Don miss the pansies that appear from time to time through the winter . Whenever there is a thaw or a few sunny days , you l be likely to find a brave little blossom or two . If those aren enough for you , why not grow some just for winter blooming ? The pansies I cherished most bloomed for me in February during a particularly cold winter . I started the seed in a flat in June and set out the little pansies in a cold frame . ( An unheated greenhouse would have been better , if I had had one . ) The plants took zero nights in their stride , with nothing but a mat of straw over the glass to protect them . In response to the lengthening days of February they budded , then bloomed their 4-inch velvety flowers . That cold frame was my morale builder ; ts mass of bright bloom set in a border of snow made my spirits rise every time I looked at it . Like strawberries in December , pansies are far more exciting in February than in May . Try that late winter pickup when you are so tired of cold and snow that you feel you just can take another day of it . The day will come , in midsummer , when you find your plants becoming `` leggy , running to tall-growing foliage at the expense of blossoms . Try pegging down each separate branch to the earth , using a bobby pin to hold it there . Pick the flowers , keep the soil dampened , and each of the pegged-down branches will take root and become a little plant and go on blooming for the rest of the season . As soon as an experimental tug assures you that roots have taken over , cut it off from the mother plant . A second and also good practice is to shear off the tops , leaving an inch high stub with just a leaf or two on each branch . These cut-down plants will bud and blossom in record time and will behave just as they did in early spring . I like to shear half my plants at a time , leaving one half of them to blossom while the second half is getting started on its new round of blooming . Probably no one needs to tell you that the way to stop all bloom is to let the blossoms go to seed . Nature aim , different from ours , is to provide for the coming generation . That done , her work is accomplished and she ignores the plant . Here is a word of advice when you go shopping for your pansy seeds . Go to a reputable grower , preferably a pansy specialist . It is no harder to raise big , healthy , blooming plants than weak , sickly little things ; n fact it is easier . But you will never get better flowers than the seed you grow . Many people think that pansies last only a few weeks , then their period of growth and bloom is over . That is not true . If the plants are cared for and protected over the winter , the second year is more prolific than the first . Would you like to grow exhibition pansies ? Remove about half the branches from each plant , leaving only the strongest with the largest buds . The flowers will be huge . Pansies have character . They stick to their principles , insist upon their due , but grow and bloom with dependable regularity if given it . Treat them right and they l make a showing every month in the year except the frigid ones . Give them food , some shade , mulch , water and more food , and they l repay your solicitude with beauty . A salad with greens and tomato is a popular and wonderfully healthful addition to a meal , but add an avocado and you have something really special . This delightful tropical fruit has become well-known in the past thirty years because modern transportation methods have made it possible to ship avocados anywhere in the United States . It has a great many assets to recommend it and if you haven made avocado a part of your diet yet , you really should . You will find that avocado is unlike any other fruit you have ever tasted . It is roughly shaped like a large pear , and when properly ripened , its dark green skin covers a meaty , melon-like pulp that has about the consistency of a ripe Bartlett pear , but oily . The avocado should have a `` give to it , as you hold it , when it is ripe . The flavor is neither sweet , like a pear , nor tart like an orange ; t is subtle and rather bland , nut-like . It is a flavor that might take a little getting used to -- not because it is unpleasant , but because the flavor is hard to define in the light of our experience with other fruits . Sometimes it takes several `` eatings of avocado to catch that delightful quality in taste that has made it such a favorite throughout the world . Once you become an avocado fan , you will look forward to the season each year with eager anticipation . Naturally dormant and no spray danger Today , refrigerated carriers have made the shipping of avocados possible to any place in the world . The fruit is allowed to mature on the tree , but it is still firm at this point . It is brought to packing houses , cleaned and graded as to size and quality , and packed in protective excelsior . The fruit is then cooled to 42-degrees-F . , a temperature at which it lapses into a sort of dormant state . This cooling does not change the avocado in any way , it just delays the natural softening of the fruit until a grovelike temperature ( room temperature ) is restored . This happens on the grocer shelf or in your kitchen . One of the most attractive things about avocados is that they do not require processing of any kind . There is no dyeing or waxing or gassing needed . If the temperature is controlled properly , the avocado will delay its ripening until needed . And unlike other fruits , one cannot eat the skin of the avocado . It is thick , much like an egg plant skin , so that poison sprays , if they are used , present no hazard to the consumer . Nutritious and a cholesterol reducer Good taste and versatility , plus safety from spray poisons would be enough to recommend the frequent use of such a fruit , even if its nutritional values were limited . Avocados , however , are very rich in nutrients . Their main asset is an abundance of unsaturated fatty acids , so necessary for maintaining the good health of the circulatory system . Aside from this , the average portion contains some protein , an appreciable amount of vitamins A and C -- about one-tenth of the minimum daily requirement , and about a third of the official vitamin E requirement . The B vitamins are well represented , especially thiamin and riboflavin . Calcium , phosphorus and iron are present in worthwhile amounts , and eleven other minerals also have been found in varying trace amounts . None of these values is destroyed , not significantly altered by refrigeration storage . Dr . Wilson C . Grant , of the Veterans ' Administration Hospital , Coral Gables , Florida , and the University of Miami School of Medicine , set out to discover if avocados , because of their high content of unsaturated fatty acids , would reduce the cholesterol of the blood in selected patients . The study comprised 16 male patients , ranging in age from 27 to 72 . They were put on control diets to determine as accurately as possible , the normal cholesterol level of their blood . Then they were given 1 to 1-1 avocados per day as a substitute for part of their dietary fat consumption . 
Five , four , three , two , one , fire ! The tremendous energy released by giant rocket engines perhaps can be felt much better than it can be heard . The pulsating vibration of energy clutches at the pit of your stomach . Never before has the introduction of a weapon caused so much apprehension and fear . Nuclear weapons are fearsome , but the long-range ballistic missile gives them a stealth and merciless swiftness which is much more terrifying . A great many writers are bewitched by the apparently overwhelming advantage an attacker would have if he were to strike with complete surprise using nuclear rockets . It is relatively easy to go a step further and reason that an attacker , in possession of such absolute power , would simultaneously destroy his opponent cities and people . With a nation defenseless before it , why would the attacker spare the victim people ? Wouldn the wanton destruction of cities and people be the logical act of complete subjugation ? The nation would be utterly devastated . The will of its people , so crucial in time of peril , would be broken . Nuclear weapons have given the world the means for self-destruction in hours or days ; nd now rockets have given it the means to destroy itself in minutes . At this point it should be painfully obvious that cities , being `` soft , and the people within them are ideally suited to destruction by nuclear weapons . However , because this vulnerability is mutual , it is to the advantage of neither side to destroy the opponent cities , at least so long as the opponent has nuclear weapons with which to effect reprisal . It should be appallingly apparent that city-trading is not a profitable military tactic . ICBMs have given us a capability which could be used in two different ways . They could be used to attack a nation people ( which would inevitably mean the loss of the attacker own people ) , or they could be used with discrimination to destroy the enemy military force . If our national interest lies in being able to fight and win a war rather than committing national suicide , then we must take a much more penetrating look at ballistic missiles . We must determine whether missiles can win a war all by themselves . We must make certain that the aircraft is finished before we give the entire job to the missile . Missiles are very valuable weapons , but they also have their too little known limitations . Because of a missile ballistic trajectory , the location of a fixed target must be known quite accurately . Placing missiles in submarines , on barges , railroads , highways , surface vessels and in the air provides them with passive protection by taking advantage of the gravest weakness of long-range ballistic missiles today -- the extreme difficulty of destroying a mobile or moving target with such weapons . One must first detect a fleeting mobile or moving target , decide that it is worthy of destruction , select the missile to be fired against the target , compute ballistics for the flight , and prepare the missile for firing . Even if all these operations could be performed instantaneously , the ICBM still has a time of flight to the target of about 30 minutes . Therefore , if the target can significantly change its location in something less than 30 minutes , the probability of having destroyed it is drastically lowered . Because of this , it would appear inevitable that an increasing percentage of strategic missiles will seek self-protection in mobility -- at least until missile defenses are perfected which have an exceedingly high kill probability . In order to destroy the enemy mobile , moving , or imprecisely located strategic forces , we must have a hunter-killer capability in addition to our missiles . Until this hunter-killer operation can be performed by spacecraft , manned aircraft appear to be the only means available to us . It seems reasonable that if general nuclear war is not to be one cataclysmic act of burning each other citizens to cinders , we must have a manned strategic force of long-endurance aircraft capable of going into China or Russia to find and destroy their strategic forces which continued to threaten us . Let us suppose the Russians decide to build a rail-mobile ICBM force . It is entirely feasible to employ aircraft such as the B-52 or B-70 in hunter-killer operations against Soviet railway-based missiles . If we stop thinking in terms of tremendous multimegaton nuclear weapons and consider employing much smaller nuclear weapons which may be more appropriate for most important military targets , it would seem that the B-52 or B-70 could carry a great many small nuclear weapons . An aircraft with a load of small nuclear weapons could very conceivably be given a mission to suppress all trains operating within a specified geographic area of Russia -- provided that we had used some of our ICBMs to degrade Russia air defenses before our bombers got there . The aircraft could be used to destroy other mobile , fleeting , and imprecisely located targets as well as the known , fixed and hardened targets which can also be destroyed by missile . Why , then , aren we planning a larger , more important role for manned military aircraft ? Is there any other way to do the job ? Survivability of our strategic forces ( Polaris , mobile and hardened Minuteman , hardened Atlas and Titan , and airborne Skybolt ) means that it will take some time , perhaps weeks , to destroy a strategic force . War , under these circumstances , cannot be one massive exchange of nuclear devastation . Forces will survive a surprise attack , and these forces will give depth , or considerable duration , to the conflict . The forces which survive the initial attack must be found and destroyed . Even mobile forces must be found and destroyed . But , how does one go about the job of finding and destroying mobile forces ? They are not susceptible to wholesale destruction by ballistic missile . Some day , many years in the future , true spacecraft will be able to find and destroy mobile targets . But until we have an effective spacecraft , the answer to the hunter-killer problem is manned aircraft . However , the aircraft which we have today are tied to large , `` soft airfields . Nuclear rockets can destroy airfields with ease . Here then is our problem : aircraft are vital to winning a war today because they can perform those missions which a missile is totally incapable of performing ; ut the airfield , on which the aircraft is completely dependent , is doomed by the missile . This makes today aircraft a one-shot , or one mission , weapon . Aircraft are mighty expensive if you can use them only once . This is the point on which so many people have written off the aircraft in favor of the missile . But remember this -- it isn the aircraft which is vulnerable to nuclear rockets , it is the airfield . Eliminate the vulnerability of aircraft on the ground and you have essentially eliminated its vulnerability to long-range ballistic missiles . There are four rather obvious ways to reduce or eliminate the vulnerability of aircraft on the ground : Put aircraft in `` bomb-proof hangars when they are on the ground . Build long-range aircraft which can take off from small ( 3 , 000-foot ) airfields with runways . If we could use all the small airfields we have in this country , we could disperse our strategic aircraft by a factor of 10 or more . Use nuclear propulsions to keep our long-range military aircraft in the air for the majority of their useful life . Using very high thrust-to-weight ratio engines , develop a vertical-takeoff-and-landing ( VTOL ) long-range military aircraft . We have the technology today with which to build aircraft shelters which could withstand at least 200 Aj . We could put a portion of our strategic bombers in such shelters . Large , long-range bombers can be developed which would have the capability to take off from 3 , 000-foot runways , but they would require more powerful engines than we have today . There is little enthusiasm for spending money to develop more powerful engines because of the erroneous belief that the aircraft has been made obsolete by the missile . This same preoccupation with missiles at the expense of aircraft has resulted in our half-hearted effort to develop nuclear propulsion for aircraft . One seldom hears the analogy `` nuclear propulsion will do for the aircraft what it has already done for the submarine . If , for some reason such as economy , we are not going to develop aircraft nuclear propulsion with a sense of national urgency , then we should turn our effort to developing jet engines with a thrust-to-weight ratio of 12 or 15 to one . With powerplants such as these , vertical takeoff and landing combat aircraft could be built . For example , a 12-to-one engine would power a supersonic VTOL fighter . With a 15-to-one engine , a supersonic aircraft weighing 300 , 000 pounds could rise vertically . The reason that we are not going ahead full speed to develop high thrust-to-weight engines is that it would cost perhaps a billion dollars -- and you don spend that sort of money if aircraft are obsolete . When aircraft are no longer helpless on airfields , they are no longer vulnerable to Aj . If our SAC bombers were , today , capable of surviving a surprise missile attack and because of infinite dispersion or long endurance had the capability to strike at Russia again , and again , and again , those bombers would unquestionably assure our military dominance . We would have the means to seek out and destroy the enemy force -- whether it were fixed or mobile . With such a force of manned bombers we could bring enormous pressure to bear on an enemy , and this pressure would be selective and extremely discriminating . No need to kill an entire city and all its people because we lacked the precision and reconnaissance to selectively disarm the enemy military force . Our first necessity , at the very outset of war , is post-attack reconnaissance . In a few years we will have SAMOS ( semiautomatic missile observation system ) . But in the case of moving targets , and targets which have limited mobility , what will their location be when it is time to destroy them ? What targets have we successfully knocked out ? A ballistic missile cannot , today , tell you if it was successful or unsuccessful . What targets still remain to be hit ? These crucial questions must be answered by post-attack reconnaissance . SAMOS will be hard put to see through clouds -- and to see in the dark . Even if this is some day possible , there remains the 30-minute time of flight of a missile to its overseas target . If the target can change its position significantly during the 30 minutes the missile is in the air on its way , the probability of the missile destroying the target is drastically reduced . Pre-attack reconnaissance is vital but only post-attack reconnaissance will allow us to terminate the war favorably . It would be priceless to have an aircraft to gather that post-attack reconnaissance . It could operate under the clouds and perform infrared photography through clouds and at night . It would be even more valuable because that same aircraft could immediately destroy any targets it discovered -- no need to wait for a missile to come all the way from the United States with the chance that the target , if it were mobile , would be gone . A large aircraft , such as the B-52 or B-70 , could carry perhaps 50 or 100 small nuclear weapons . Few people realize that one kiloton of nuclear explosive power will create 1 , 000 psi overpressure at 100 feet . Or put another way , the hardest missile site planned today could be destroyed by placing a one-kiloton warhead ( 1 the size of those used in Hiroshima and Nagasaki ) within 100 to 200 feet of the target ! It is our lack of extreme accuracy which forces the use of very large yield nuclear weapons . Today we have side-looking radar which has such high resolution that the radar picture clearly shows individual buildings , runways , taxi-ways , separate spans of bridges , etc . . With these keen `` eyes and small nuclear weapons delivered with accuracy , military forces can be directly attacked with minimum damage to urban areas . If we fail to develop the means to hunt down and destroy the enemy military force with extreme care and precision , and if war comes in spite of our most ardent desires for peace , our choice of alternatives will be truly frightening . 
The lyric beauties of Schubert Trout Quintet -- its elemental rhythms and infectious melodies -- make it a source of pure pleasure for almost all music listeners . But for students of musical forms and would-be classifiers , the work presents its problems . Since it requires only five players , it would seem to fall into the category of chamber music -- yet it calls for a double bass , an instrument generally regarded as symphonic . Moreover , the piece is written in five movements , rather than the conventional four of most quintets , and this gives the opus a serenade or divertimento flavor . The many and frequent performances of the Trout serve to emphasize the dual nature of its writing . Some renditions are of symphonic dimensions , with the contrabass given free rein . Other interpretations present the music as an essentially intimate creation . In these readings , the double bass is either kept discreetly in the background , or it is dressed in clown attire -- the musical equivalent of a bull in a china shop . Recently I was struck anew by the divergent approaches , when in the course of one afternoon and evening I listened to no fewer than ten different performances . The occasion for this marathon : Angel long-awaited reissue in its `` Great Recordings Of The Century series of the Schnabel-Pro Arte version . Let me say at the outset that the music sounded as sparkling on the last playing as it did on the first . Whether considered alone or in relation to other editions , COLH 40 is a document of prime importance . Artur Schnabel was one of the greatest Schubert-Beethoven-Mozart players of all time , and any commentary of his on this repertory is valuable . But Schnabel was a great teacher in addition to being a great performer , and the fact that four of the ten versions I listened to are by Schnabel pupils ( Clifford Curzon , Frank Glazer , Adrian Aeschbacher , and Victor Babin ) also sheds light on the master pedagogical skills . Certain pianistic traits are common to all five Schnabelian renditions , most notably the `` Schnabel trill ( which differs from the conventional trill in that the two notes are struck simultaneously ) . But the most impressive testimony to Schnabel distinction as a teacher is reflected by the individuality which marks each student approach as distinctly his own . Schnabel emphasis on structural clarity , his innate rhythmic vibrancy , and impetuous intensity all tend to stamp his reading as a symphonic one . Yet no detail was too small to receive attention from this master , and as a result the playing here has humor , delicacy , and radiant humanity . This is a serious-minded interpretation , but it is never strait-laced . And although Schnabel pianism bristles with excitement , it is meticulously faithful to Schubert dynamic markings and phrase indications . The piano performance on this Trout is one that really demands a search for superlatives . About the Pro Arte contribution I am less happy . I , for one , rather regret that Schnabel didn collaborate with the Budapest Quartet , whose rugged , athletic playing was a good deal closer to this pianist interpretative outlook than the style of the Belgian group . From a technical standpoint , the string playing is good , but the Pro Arte people fail to enter into the spirit of things here . The violinist , in particular , is very indulgent with swoops and slides , and his tone is pinched and edgy . The twenty-five-year-old recording offers rather faded string tone , but the balance between the instruments is good and the transfer is very quiet . There is a break in continuity just before the fourth variation in the `` Forellen movement , and I suspect that this is due to imperfect splicing between sides of the original Aj . Turning to the more modern versions , Curzon ( London ) offers the most sophisticated keyboard work . Every detail in his interpretation has been beautifully thought out , and of these I would especially cite the delicious laendler touch the pianist brings to the fifth variation ( an obvious indication that he is playing with Viennese musicians ) , and the gossamer shading throughout . Some of Curzon playing strikes me as finicky , however . Why , for example , does he favor two tempos , rather than one , for the third movement ? The assisting musicians from the Vienna Octet are somewhat lacking in expertise , but their contribution is rustic and appealing . ( Special compliments to the double bass playing of Johann Krumpp : his scrawny , tottering sound adds a delightful hilarity to the performance . ) The Glazer-Fine Arts edition ( Concert-Disc ) is a model of lucidity and organization . It is , moreover , a perfectly integrated ensemble effort . But having lived with the disc for some time now , I find the performance less exciting than either Schnabel or Fleisher ( whose superb performance with the Budapest Quartet has still to be recorded ) and a good deal less filled with humor than Curzon . Aeschbacher work is very much akin to Schnabel , but the sound on his Decca disc is dated , and you will have a hard time locating a copy of it . The Hephzibah Menuhin-Amadeus Quartet ( Angel ) and Victor Babin-Festival Quartet ( RCA Victor ) editions give us superlative string playing ( both in symphonic style ) crippled by unimaginative piano playing . ( Babin has acquired some of Schnabel keyboard manner , but his playing is of limited insight . ) Badura-Skoda-Vienna Konzerthaus ( Westminster ) and Demus-Schubert Quartet ( Deutsche Grammophon ) are both warm-toned , pleasantly lyrical , but rather slack and tensionless . Helmut Roloff , playing with a group of musicians from the Bayreuth Ensemble , gives a sturdy reading , in much the same vein as that of the last-mentioned pianists . Telefunken has accorded him beautiful sound , and this bargain-priced disc ( it sells for $2 . 98 ) is worthy of consideration . Returning once again to the Schnabel reissue , I am beguiled anew by the magnificence of this pianist musical penetration . Here is truly a `` Great Recording of the Century , and its greatness is by no means diminished by the fact that it is not quite perfect . This recording surely belongs in everyone collection . Must records always sound like records ? From the beginning of commercial recording , new discs purported to be indistinguishable from The Real Thing have regularly been put in circulation . Seen in perspective , many of these releases have a genuine claim to be milestones . Although lacking absolute verisimilitude , they supply the ear and the imagination with all necessary materials for re-creation of the original . On the basis of what they give us we can know how the young Caruso sang , appreciate the distinctive qualities of Parsifal under Karl Muck baton , or sense the type of ensemble Toscanini created in his years with the New York Philharmonic . Since the concept of high fidelity became important some dozen years ago , the claims of technical improvements have multiplied tenfold . In many cases the revolutionary production has offered no more than sensational effects : the first hearing was fascinating and the second disillusioning as the gap between sound and substance became clearer . Other innovations with better claims to musical interest survived rehearing to acquire in time the status of classics . If we return to them today , we have no difficulty spotting their weaknesses but we find them still pleasing . Records sound like records because they provide a different sort of experience than live music . This difference is made up of many factors . Some of them are obvious , such as the fact that we associate recorded and live music with our responses and behavior in different types of environments and social settings . ( Music often sounds best to me when I can dress informally and sit in something more comfortable than a theatre seat . ) From the technical standpoint , records differ from live music to the degree that they fail to convey the true color , texture , complexity , range , intensity , pulse , and pitch of the original . Any alteration of one of these factors is distortion , although we generally use that word only for effects so pronounced that they can be stated quantitatively on the basis of standard tests . Yet it is the accumulation of distortion , the fitting together of fractional bits until the total reaches the threshold of our awareness , that makes records sound like records . The sound may be good ; ut if you know The Real Thing , you know that what you are hearing is only a clever imitation . Command new Brahms Second is a major effort to make a record that sounds like a real orchestra rather than a copy of one . Like the recent Scheherazade from London ( High Fidelity , Sept . 1961 ) , it is successful because emphasis has been placed on good musical and engineering practices rather than on creating sensational effects . Because of this , only those with truly fine equipment will be able to appreciate the exact degree of the engineers ' triumph . The easiest way to describe this release is to say that it reproduces an interesting and effective Steinberg performance with minimal alteration of its musical values . The engineering as such never obtrudes upon your consciousness . The effect of the recording is very open and natural , with the frequency emphasis exactly what you would expect from a live performance . This absence of peaky highs and beefed-up bass not only produces greater fidelity , but it eliminates listener fatigue . A contributing factor is the perspective , the uniform aesthetic distance which is maintained . The orchestra is far enough away from you that you miss the bow scrapes , valve clicks , and other noises incidental to playing . Yet you feel the orchestra is near at hand , and the individual instruments have the same firm presence associated with listening from a good seat in an acoustically perfect hall . Command has achieved the ideal amount of reverberation . The music is always allowed the living space needed to attain its full sonority ; et the hall never intrudes as a quasi-performer . The timbre remains that of the instruments unclouded by resonance . All of this would be wasted , of course , if the performance lacked authority and musical distinction . For me it has more of both elements than the majority of its competitors . Steinberg seems to have gone directly back to the score , discounting tradition , and has built his performance on the intention to reproduce as faithfully as possible exactly what Brahms set down on paper . Those accustomed to broader , more romantic statements of the symphony can be expected to react strongly when they hear this one . Without losing the distinctive undertow of Brahmsian rhythm , the pacing is firm and the over-all performance has a tightly knit quality that makes for maximum cumulative effect . The Presto Ma non assai of the first trio of the scherzo is taken literally and may shock you , as the real Allegro con Spirito of the finale is likely to bring you to your feet . In the end , however , the thing about this performance that is most striking is the way it sings . Steinberg obviously has concluded that it is the lyric element which must dominate in this score , and he manages at times to create the effect of the whole orchestra bursting into song . The engineering provides exactly the support needed for such a result . Too many records seem to reduce a work of symphonic complexity to a melody and its accompaniment . The Command technique invites you to listen to the depth of the orchestration . Your ear takes you into the ensemble , and you may well become aware of instrumental details which previously were apparent only in the score . It is this sort of experience that makes the concept of high fidelity of real musical significance for the home music listener . The first substantially complete stereo Giselle ( and the only one of its scope since Feyer four-sided LP edition of 1958 for Angel ) , this set is , I afraid , likely to provide more horrid fascination than enjoyment . The already faded pastel charms of the naive music itself vanish entirely in Fistoulari melodramatic contrasts between ultravehement brute power and chilly , if suave , sentimentality . And in its engineers ' frantic attempts to achieve maximum dynamic impact and earsplitting brilliance , the recording sounds as though it had been `` doctored for super-high fidelity . The home listener is overpowered , all right , but the experience is a far from pleasant one . As with the penultimate Giselle release ( Wolff abridgment for RCA Victor ) I find the cleaner , less razor-edged monophonic version , for all its lack of big-stage spaciousness , the more aurally tolerable -- but this may be the result of processing defects in my SD copies . 
At the Westminster KC Dog Show in Madison Square Garden , New York on the second day , the Finals of the Junior Class brought out the most competitive competition in the history of this Class . The Class had entries from as far west as Wisconsin and as far south as Kentucky . This year several entries from Canada were entered which made the Junior Class International . Forty-six of the 53 Juniors who mailed in entries were present . It was interesting to note that many of these Juniors were showing dogs in various other classes at the show prior to the Finals of the Junior Class . As has been the custom for the past several years , John Cross , Jr . , Bench Show Chmn . of Westminster , arranged for the Juniors ' meeting before the Class , and invited two speakers from the dog world to address them . Over 60 Juniors , parents and guests attended . Mrs . William H . Long , Jr . speaks After the Juniors were welcomed and congratulated for qualifying for the Finals of the Junior Class , Mrs . William H . Long , Jr . was introduced as the first speaker . In her opening remarks Mrs . Long also welcomed the Juniors and stated , `` There isn any other show quite like Westminster . I know because this is my 37th year with hardly a break . Mrs . Long still feels the same unique spirit of Westminster which she stated the present Juniors will experience today but probably will not appreciate in full for a number of years . Twenty years ago her daughter Betsey Long , then 13 years of age , won the Grand Challenge Trophy , Children Handling Class ( as they were called then ) at Westminster . No sooner had Betsey come out of the ring than Mrs . Long walked into the Working Competition with Ch . Cadet or Noranda , another home-bred product , and won ! Speaking from long years of experience , Mrs . Long advised the Juniors : `` When showing dogs ceases to be fun and excitement , stop ! Dogs have a way of sensing our feelings ! When you and your dog step into the Junior ring , it should be just what the dog wants to do as much as what you want him to do . If you walk into the ring because it is fun to show your dog , he will feel it and give you a good performance ! He knows your signals , what is expected of him and the way the Class is conducted , right up through the flash-bulbs of the photographers . Right attitude essential ! `` Take away your attitude , said Mrs . Long , `` and what have you left ? Either a nervous dog because you are livid with rage -- a sure sign that you are taking things too seriously and had better stop ! Or a bored dog because you are more interested in something else -- maybe the way you look , or the date you have after the Class , or you are just doing this to please the parents . `` The reason you are in the ring today is to show your ability to present to any judge the most attractive picture of your dog that the skillful use of your aids can produce . Aids sounds more like a Pony Club , or horsemanship classes -- riding a horse and showing a dog are very similar ! `` Your aids are your attitude , which comes through your voice , your hands and legs -- voice to encourage , discourage or whatever the need may be ; ands to guide or restrain ; egs to produce motion and rate of speed . Without right attitude the other aids just do not work right . Mrs . Long wished all the Juniors luck in the Class and stated , `` Have fun ! And may you all continue to show at Westminster in the years to come ! Harvey Barcus , second speaker The second speaker was Harvey Barcus , President of the Dog Writers Ass of America . Mr . Barcus spoke on the subject of scholarships for Juniors -- with which he is very familiar . Last year a boy he knows and helped in Journalism won the Thoroughbred Racing Ass Scholarship which is worth $10 , 000 . He gave a resume of the steps taken in order for the boy he sponsored to win the scholarship . `` Junior Showmanship is an extremely worthy project and should be earnestly encouraged ! Is one of Mr . Barcus ' strong beliefs . He feels very forcibly that the American Kennel Club should take a more active part in encouraging the Junior Division ! In closing , Mr . Barcus also wished all the Juniors luck in their Class . Westminster Show Notes Instead of 3 a . m . in the past , the Juniors Class at Westminster was held at 4 : 45 p . m . . This gave the Juniors the use of the entire ring at the show -- a great advantage to them ! Before the Juniors entered the ring the Steward announced that after all Juniors had moved their dogs around the ring and set them up , they could relax with their dogs . From there on , each Junior was going to be judged individually . This thoughtful gesture was well received by the Juniors as the Class had an entry of 46 Juniors and it took approximately one hour , 45 minutes to judge the Class . Anne Hone Rogers judges 28th finals This year Anne Hone Rogers , outstanding Handler , judged the Class . This is the third time in 28 years of Junior Showmanship at Westminster that a lady Handler has judged the Class . As the Juniors entered the ring , Mr . Spring , the announcer , stated over the public-address system that this was the 28th year that Westminster has held the Finals of the Junior Competition . Juniors competed last year at American Kennel Club and Canadian Kennel Club , recognized shows to be eligible to compete in this Class -- the Finals for the year . A Junior who won two or more wins in the Open Class was eligible . ( The purpose of the Junior Showmanship Competition is to teach and encourage Juniors to become good sportsmen . Many adults showing at Westminster today are products of this Class . ) It seemed an almost impossible job for Miss Rogers to select 4 winners from the 46 Juniors entered . A large number of these Juniors have 7 and 8 wins to their credit and are seasoned campaigners . After the judge moved all the dogs individually , she selected several from the group and placed them in the center of the ring . She then went over them thoroughly giving each a strenuous test in showmanship . International Champion of the year Betty Lou Ham , age 16 , Holyoke , Mass . , showing an Irish Setter , was chosen as International Champion of the year . She was awarded the Professional Handlers ' Ass s ' Leonard Brumby , Sr . Memorial Trophy ( named for the founder-originator of the Junior Classes . ) Betty is 16 years of age and had several wins to her credit last year . In addition to showing an Irish Setter throughout the year , she also scored with an Afghan . Other winners Sydney Le Blanc , age 15 , Staten Island , N . Y . , showing a Doberman Pinscher , was 2nd . Susan Hackmann , age 14 , from Baltimore , Md . , showing a Dachshund , was 3rd . Last year Susan also placed 3rd in the Finals at Westminster . From the records we keep -- Susan is the only Junior who has placed in the Junior Classes in both United States and Canada . Karen Marcmann , age 16 , Trapp , Penna . , showing a Keeshond was 4th . Most Juniors who were entered in the Finals are seasoned campaigners and not only show and win in Junior Classes but score in the Breed Classes as well . Entries increasing -- requirements raised In 1960 , there were 7287 entries in the Junior Classes . Each year these shows have increased in entries . Next year 1962 , at Westminster , the Bench Show Committee has raised the requirements so that a junior must win 3 or more Junior Classes in the open division only to qualify for Westminster . Percy Roberts , a leading judge will not be at the International Show this year for the Junior Judging Contest as he has been invited to judge in Australia in March . Judging class for intermediates proposed It has been suggested many times that a Class be set up for the Juniors who are overage and cannot enter the Junior Classes . For some time this writer has been suggesting a Junior Judging Class for Intermediates over 16 and under 20 years of age who are ineligible to compete in the Junior Class . Such a Class was tried out successfully at the Westchester KC Show recently . Not only were the contestants pleased with the Class , but it aroused the interest of all in attendance that day . The Intermediates in the Class with the Judge were asked to pick 4 winners and give their reasons but their decisions did not affect the choice of the Judge . We suggested this Class in the horse world and it was accepted immediately and included in the programs of horse shows . At the recent horse show convention in New York it was stated that this Intermediate Judging Class is meeting with great success and will be a great help to future judges in the horse world . This Class can be just as successful in the dog world if it is given a chance . Last year Robert Harris , a leading Junior Handler entered the Dog Judging Contest ( Junior ) at the International KC of Chicago show and had the highest score in judging of any Junior since the Class ' inception . Juniors who attend this Chicago show should make a point to enter this Class as it would be of great help to them . More volunteer handlers needed to judge Superintendents at dog shows state it is becoming more difficult to obtain a licensed Handler to Judge Junior Showmanship Competition . The founder of the Junior Showmanship Competition the late Leonard Brumby , Sr . ( for whom the trophy is named after at Westminster ) was an outstanding Handler and believed a Junior should have an opportunity to exhibit in a dog show starting with the Junior Showmanship Division . Some years ago this Class was judged by celebrities who knew nothing of what was required of a Junior ability to show a dog . To overcome this unfair judging , the A . K . C . requires that a licensed Handler be present to judge the Class . If the superintendents do not receive more cooperation from Handlers , it has been suggested that licensed Judges also be qualified to judge this Class . By recognizing and helping Juniors get interested in the dog world , all will be helping to create future dog owners . Other awards for Juniors The Airedale Terrier Club of America and the Kerry Blue Terrier Club of America have under consideration donating trophies to the boys or girls who win with their breeds in Junior Showmanship Competition at any Show . The Kansas City and the Topeka KCs are arranging that Juniors who win at their shows will be qualified to win points for Westminster . The Rio Grande KC is also considering having their Junior Classes set up so that Juniors can qualify with points for Westminster . The American Pointer Club is still continuing to donate trophies to Juniors who win at Junior Showmanship Classes with Pointers . Traveling through the South -- over 16 , 000 miles -- with two Great Danes , an Afghan , and a Persian kitten , we e worked up a regular routine for acceptance at motels . My husband enters the motel office , signs up for a room , and then solemnly asks the proprieter if he accepts pets . `` Puppies ? Comes the suspicious question . `` No , he replies , `` full grown , adult show dogs , housebroken , and obedience-trained . We e never been refused ! Once settled , we e careful to walk the dogs in an out of the way spot , keep them under control in the room , and feed and bench them where they can do any harm to the furnishings or the furniture . In the morning we leave the room looking as neat as a pin ! Many a motel owner -- when we e stopped there again -- has remembered us and has said he preferred our dogs to most children . So many times I have wondered why veterinarians do not wipe the table clean before each new canine patient is placed on it for examination . Is it that they don care ? Are they indifferent to the fact that the dog can easily pick up germs from the preceding patient ? 
At one time , to most Americans , unless they were fortunate enough to live near a body of navigable water , boats were considered the sole concern of fishermen , rich people , and the United States Navy . Today the recreational boating scene is awash with heartening statistics which prove the enormous growth of that sport . There are more than 8 , 000 , 000 recreational boats in use in the United States with almost 10 , 000 , 000 the prediction for within the next decade . About 40 , 000 , 000 people participated in boating in 1960 . Boating has become a giant whose strides cover the entire nation from sea to shining sea . Boats are operated in every state in the Union , with the heaviest concentrations along both coasts and in the Middle West . The spectacular upsurge in pleasure boating is markedly evident , expectedly , in the areas where boats have always been found : the natural lakes , rivers , and along the nation coastline . But during the last several years boats were launched in areas where , a short time ago , the only water to be found was in wells and watering troughs for livestock . Developed as a result of the multi-purpose resources control program of the government , vast , man-made bodies of water represent a kind of glorious fringe benefit , providing boating and fishing havens all over the country . No matter how determined or wealthy boating lovers of the Southwest had been , for example , they could never have created anything approaching the fifty square-mile Lake Texoma , located between Texas and Oklahoma , which resulted when the Corp of Army Engineers dammed the Red River . In 1959 , according to the Engineers , Lake Texoma was only one of thirty-two artificial lakes and reservoirs which were used for recreation by over 1 , 000 , 000 persons . Where an opportunity to enjoy boating has not been created by bringing bodies of water to the people , means have been found to take the people and their boats to the water . Providing these means are about ninety companies which manufactured the estimated 1 , 800 , 000 boat trailers now in use . It is a simple task to haul a boat fifty or one hundred miles to a lake or reservoir on the new , light , strong , easy-to-operate trailers which are built to accommodate almost any kind of small boat and retail from $100 to $2 , 000 . The sight of sleek inboards , outboards , and sailboats being wheeled smartly along highways many miles from any water is commonplace . Boatmen lucky enough to have facilities for year- ound anchorage for their craft , will recall the tedious procedure of loading their gear into the car , driving to the water , and making trip after trip to transfer the gear to the boat . Today , the boat , on its trailer , is brought to the gear and loaded at the door . Arriving at the waterside , the boat is launched , the family taken aboard and , that easily , another day afloat is begun . And trailers for boats are not what they started out to be ten years ago . This year , Americans will discover previously unheard of refinements in trailers that will be exhibited in about one hundred of our nation national , regional and local boat shows . The boats of America trailer sailors in 1961 will be coddled on clouds as they are hauled to new horizons . The variety of craft on the country waters today is overwhelming . They range from an eight-foot pram , which you can build yourself for less than $50 , to auxiliary sailboats which can cost over $100 , 000 . Boat prices vary according to the buyer desires or needs . In this respect , boats can be compared with houses . There is no limit to what you can spend , yet it is easily possible to keep within a set budget . There is no question as to just what is available . You name it , our industry is producing it , and it probably is made in different models . There are canoes ideal for fishing in protected waters or for camping trips . There are houseboats which are literally homes afloat , accommodating whole families in comfort and convenience . You can cross an ocean in a fully equipped craft , sail , power , or both , or laze away a fine day in a small dinghy on a local pond . You may have your boat of wood , canvas , plywood , plastic , or metal . You may order utility models , inboard or outboard , with or without toilets , galleys , and bunks . You may dress it up with any number of accessories or keep it as simple as you choose . Designers and manufacturers have produced models for purchasers who run the gamut from a nautical version of the elderly Pasadena lady who never drove more than five miles an hour on her once-a-month ride around the block , to the sportiest boatman who insists on all the dash , color , flair and speed possible to encompass in a single boat . You pay your money and you take your choice . American technology in engine and hull design is largely responsible for the plentiful interest in American boating . I wonder if anyone ever bothered to make the point that when it comes to boats and their motors , Americans excel over any country in the world in the long run . Russia , whose technology is not quite primitive , is still in the dark ages when it comes to improving the outboard motor , for instance . Now here is truly a marvel . The outboard engine of today has a phenomenal range of one to 80 horsepower , unheard of a few years ago for a two cycle engine in quantity production . These engines can be removed from a boat with relative ease , wherein lies their greatest advantage . Their cost is not beyond the hopes of the American pocketbook , the range being about $150 to $1 , 000 , depending on size . Great thought has been given to making life easier for the growing boating population of the country ; nd to making the owning of a boat simpler . There was a time when , if a man wanted to purchase a boat , it was necessary for him to be able to produce a sizeable amount of cash before he could touch the tiller or wheel . Having a boat financed through a local bank is done much the same way as an automobile loan is extended . Marine dealers and even some manufacturers who sell direct in non-dealer areas cooperate in enabling you to launch now and pay later . Terms range from one to five years and the interest rates and down payments run about the same as for automobiles . Of course , individual financing arrangements depend a good deal on the purchaser earning power , credit rating and local bank policy . Outboard motors , insurance , and boat repairs may also be financed in the same way as boats . Terms and rates of interest for motors generally follow those for home appliances . When the automobile was in its embryonic stage , such roads as existed were pretty much open roads with the tacit understanding that horses should not be unduly terrified being about the only rule governing where , when and how fast a car could go . When air travel was in its infancy , the sky was considered big enough and high enough for all . Man had enough to worry about managing to get up there and stay without being burdened with rules once aloft . It was much the same with pleasure boating at first . Come one , come all , the water fine ! As the ungoverned days of the automobile and the airplane are long since relegated to the past , so is the carefree attitude toward what a boatman may and may not do ; ust and should do . However , there is a minimum of legislative restriction on boating . Laws on boating vary according to the state in which the craft is to be used and according to its horsepower . What may be acceptable in one state may be strictly prohibited across the boundary line . The main requirement is to be sure the boat is numbered according to the regulations of the state in which the boat will be principally used . If your state has no provisions for the numbering of pleasure boats , you must apply for a number from the U . S . Coast Guard for any kind of boat with mechanical propulsion rated at more than 10 horsepower before it can be used on Federal waterways . State numbering laws differ from each other in many ways . Fees are not the same and some states do not require certain craft , such as sailboats with no power , to be registered at all . Many states have laws regulating the use of boat trailers and some have restrictions regarding the age of motor boat operators . Generally , states reserve for communities the right to have local ordinances regulating speed and other activities . It is always wise to consult your marine dealer , local yacht or boat club secretary , or local law enforcement officers if you are not positive what the regulations are . Ignorance of the law is no better excuse on the water than it is on land ; ack of ability and common sense can lead to just as much tragedy . Hand in hand with the legislative program is the industry self originated and directed safety program . Foreseeing the possible threats to safety with the rapid growth of the sport , the industry has been supporting an intense , coordinated educational program with great success since 1947 . A primary factor in the success of the safety program has been the enthusiastic cooperation of the individual manufacturers . The industry has been its own watch dog . With U . S . Coast Guard cooperation , the American Boat and Yacht Council was formed to develop recommended practices and standards for boats and their equipment with reference to safety . Industry interest in safety goes even farther . In 1959 , the Yacht Safety Bureau was reorganized by the National Association of Engine and Boat Manufacturers and a group of insurance underwriters to provide a testing laboratory and labeling service for boats and their equipment . A new waterfront site for the bureau is now being built at Atlantic City , New Jersey , to provide the most modern marine testing facilities as a further tool to keep the sport safe . In addition to these activities , the NAEBM , with headquarters at 420 Lexington Avenue , New York City , as well as other associations and individual manufacturers , provide and distribute films , booklets , and public services in regard to proper boat handling and safety afloat . It is important to note the work of the United States Power Squadrons and the U . S . Coast Guard Auxiliary . Each of these fine groups gives free boating classes in seamanship piloting and small boat handling . These are not governmentally subsidized organizations . This year , over 100 , 000 persons will receive this free instruction . As America on wheels was responsible for an industry of motor courts , motels , and drive-in establishments where you can dine , see a movie , shop , or make a bank deposit , the ever-increasing number of boating enthusiasts have sparked industries designed especially to accommodate them . Instead of motels , for the boatman there are marinas . The word marina was coined by NAEBM originally to describe a waterfront facility where recreational boats could find protection and basic needs to lay over in relative comfort . Currently , marina is used to indicate a municipal or commercially operated facility where a pleasure boat may dock and find some or all of the following available : gasoline , fresh water , electricity , telephone service , ice , repair facilities , restaurants , sleeping accommodations , a general store , and a grocery store . Yachtel , a relatively new word , indicates a waterfront type of hotel where a yachtsman may dock and find overnight accommodations on the premises as well as other services . Boatel has a similar meaning to yachtel . It indicates the same thing but it is meant to pertain more specifically to establishments designed to cater to smaller type boats such as outboards . Regardless of nomenclature , yachtels and boatels are marinas . Boatyards which also provide some of the above facilities may rightfully be called marinas . A recent survey disclosed there are about 4 , 000 commercially and municipally operated marinas and boatyards in the United States , the majority of which are equipped to handle outboard boats . 
The design of a mechanical interlocking frame is much like a mechanical puzzle , but once understood , the principles can be applied to any track and signal arrangement . In the frame are two sets of bars which interact with each other to prevent the operator from making dangerous moves . The main set of bars are the `` tappets and one tappet is connected to each lever . If the lever is pulled to clear a signal or move a switch , the tappet moves a short distance lengthwise at the same time . Close behind the plane of the tappets are the locking bars . These can also move a short distance but at right angles to the tappets . The number of locking bars required depends on how many false moves must be prevented . In the sides of the tappets are notches with sloping sides , and connection between the tappets and locking bars consist of cams called `` dogs . Two or more dogs are mounted on each locking bar . These slide into and out of the notches in the tappets as the tappets are moved , locking and unlocking them . Here how the scheme works : Suppose the operator pulls the lever to clear a particular signal . This also pulls the tappet connected to the particular lever and forces any dogs seated in the notches to the side , thus moving one or more locking bars . The dogs on the other ends of these locking bars are thus forced into notches in other tappets . By this scheme , pulling one signal to clear locks all the other switch and signal levers in safe positions until the first signal is again restored to normal . Interlocking signals are normally at stop or `` red position , and a lever must be pulled to `` clear the signal . This is not necessarily to green , however , for in some situations only a yellow indication is given to a train to let it into the `` plant . There are other basic rules . A turnout may have two levers , one to actually move the switch points , the other to lock the points . A signal cannot be cleared until all the related turnouts are properly thrown and locked . Such locks are nearly always used where the switch points `` face oncoming traffic . The lock insures that the points are thrown all the way with no chance that a wheel flange will snag on a partly thrown point . If the points aren thrown all the way , the Turnout cannot be locked , and in turn , the signal cannot be cleared . Generally , these locks on turnouts are called `` facing point locks . Figs . 1-6 show typical arrangements of track and signals . Each diagram is accompanied by a `` dog chart , a list of the levers that show which other levers any particular lever will lock if pulled . The lines connecting the wedge-shaped dogs represent the locking bars at right angles to the tappet bars . By studying the track-signal diagrams you l note several other details . Derails -- mechanical track devices that actually guide the wheels off the rails if a train passes a `` stop signal -- are used in many instances . `` Home signals have two blades . The blacked-in blades indicate a fixed aspect -- the blade does not move . As an engineer approaches the plant the position of the home signal is seen in advance when he passes the `` distant signal located beyond the limits of the interlocking plant . In some low-speed situations , the distant signal is fixed at caution . In other instances where there is no automatic block signaling , the distant has only green and yellow aspects . So much for the prototype . The interlocking frame we built at the model railroader workshop and then installed on Paul Larson railroad follows the Fig . 1 scheme and is shown beginning in Fig . 7 , page 65 , and in the photos . Here how it can be built . Frame The sizes of pieces needed for the interlocking frame are shown in the notes within Fig . 7 , most of the bars being 1 brass in 1 and 1 widths . You may change the dimensions to suit a frame for more or fewer levers and locks as you wish . Our instructions assume you are building this particular frame , which is for a junction . When cutting the pieces , dress the ends smooth , and square with a smooth file or sanding disk . Start with the right-hand piece `` B , Af , soldering it to the lower piece `` A of the same material but 12 long . Let exactly 1 of `` A extend beyond `` B and use a square to check your angle to exactly 90 degrees . Now lay 12 pieces of Af cut 5-3 long side by side but separated by 12 pieces of the same material 1 sq . . This gives you the spacing for locating the left-hand piece `` B . Compress the assembly when you make the mark to show the location for `` B . Solder this second `` B to `` A at right angles . There should be 10 between the two parallel members and each should be 1 from an end of the long piece . Cap this assembly ( with spacing bars in place ) with a Af bar . Tack-solder all the 1 sq . pieces to the 10 and 12 members . These will be drilled and tapped later on . Now cut five Af locking bar spacers ( which run horizontally ) . Position these using six intermediate temporary Af spacers and locate the upper 12 bar `` A . Solder it and the five locking bar spacers to the frame . Now place 12 pieces 1 sq . on this edge as we did before and space them with the 5-3 long `` tappets , as they are called . Cap with a Af bar and tack-solder in place . Cap the locking bar spacers with two Af directly under the first two `` B pieces . Remove all the loose spacing bars . Mark and center-punch all the holes required for screws to hold this assembly together . See Fig . 7 . Placement of these holes is not critical , but they should be located so that the centers are about 1 from any edge . Drill all No . 50 and counter-drill all except the `` A pieces size 43 . Tap the `` A pieces 2-56 . Now unsolder and disassemble the frame except for the two 12 and the first two 3-3 bars ( `` A and `` B pieces ) , which are soldered together . Either lay the components aside in proper order or code them with numbers and letters so they may be replaced in their proper positions . Dress all surfaces with a file , cleaning off all solder and drilling burrs . Drill 20 No . 47 holes in the upper piece `` A as shown in Fig . 7 . Tap these 3-48 for mounting the electrical contact later on . Note , 6 and 8 lock levers don require holes for contacts . Now reassemble the frame , using Af roundhead steel screws and nuts . Put the 12 tappets and some Af locking bar spacers in the frame to help align all the components before you tighten the screws . Be sure the tappets are not pinched by a twisted 1 sq . spacer . As an anchor for the spring lock , insert a Af bar in the lower left corner of the frame as shown in Fig . 7 . Drill a No . 43 hole through the pieces and secure with a 2-56 nut and screw . Drill two No . 50 holes , one in the insert and one in the locking bar spacer directly above it , and tap 2-56 . Number all the tappet bars before removing them so they can be replaced in the same slots . Remove all other loose pieces and file the edges of the basic frame smooth . Cut five pieces of Af brass bar stock 3-3 long . These are supporting members for the short locking bars . Locate their positions in Fig . 7 and drill No . 43 to match the corresponding holes in the frame . Cut off excess screw lengths and file flush with either frame or nut . Drill four No . 19 and four No . 28 holes in the 12 long `` A pieces . Locate the position from Fig . 7 . Tappets and locking bars Draw-file No . 1 tappet to a smooth fit in its respective slot and square the ends . Break the end corners with a slight 45 degree chamfer . Drill a No . 50 hole 1-1 from one end and tap 2-56 . ( See Fig . 7 . ) Put a 2-56 roundhead screw into the hole , cut off the excess threads and file flush with the underside of the bar . To find the other stop screw position , insert the tappet into the frame and hold the screw head tight against the frame edge . Scribe a line across the bar on the other end of the tappet , 1 plus half the diameter of the 2-56 screw head ( about 5 ) away from the frame edge . Total distance is about 21 . Tend to make this dimension slightly undersize so you can file the screw head to get exactly 1 tappet movement . Drill a No . 50 hole , tap 2-56 and insert a roundhead 2-56 screw as you did on the first end . Drill a No . 47 hole crosswise through the tappet at the position shown in Figs . 7 and 8 . Repeat these drill and tap operations for each of the tappet bars . To each tappet except 6 and 8 , solder a Af piece of brass and file to the tapered shape shown in Figs . 6 and 8 . These will serve as lifting pads for the electrical contacts . Fitting the locking bars and making the locking pieces is a rather tedious job since stop screws , tappets and locking bars must be removed and replaced many times . As the work progresses the frame and moving parts become a sort of Chinese puzzle where several pieces must be removed before the part you are working on is accessible . A little extra work here will pay off with a smooth , snug-fitting machine when you are finished . Each completed locking bar should remain in place as the work progresses to insure snug fitting . The order of fitting is not too important . However , we started with the first row of bars and worked our way back . Since the same method of shaping and fitting the dogs and notches is used throughout , we will only describe the construction of one locking bar . Figs . 7 and 8 give all pertinent dimensions . All the bars are cut from Af brass . The lengths of each piece are listed at the bottom of Fig . 7 . Bar `` C is 2-3 long . Draw-file the edges , square up the ends and put a slight chamfer on the edges so they will not snag in the frame . Fig . 8 gives the dimensions for locating the dog-pin holes . Center-punch and drill the No . 31 hole 7 from one end of the bar . Chuck a length of 1 dia . drill rod into a drill press or some similar turning device and while it is rotating file the end square and then file a slight taper 1 long . Cut the piece about 9 or 5 long and drive it into the No . 31 hole drilled in the locking bar . File the bottom edge flush with the bar and the top 1 above the bar . This dog will engage a notch to be cut in tappet 3 . Place the locking bar in proper position and insert tappet 3 . Scribe a line through the center of the pin and across the face of tappet 3 , parallel to piece `` A . See the drawings for the shape of the notch . Scribe V-shaped lines on the bar and rough out with either a hack saw or a cutting disk in a hand power tool . We used the latter equipped with a carborundum disk about thick and 1 dia . fitted on a 1 dia . mandrel . Such disks are very handy for cutting and shaping small parts . File to a smooth finish . A Barrette Swiss pattern file is handy since its triangular shape with only one cutting face will allow you to work a surface without marring an adjoining one . Endeavor to get the notches as much alike as possible . The notch should have a smooth finish so that the steel dog will slide easily over it . Assemble the parts in the frame and test the sliding action of the mating pieces . All matching surfaces should be checked frequently and mated on a cut and fit basis . Chuck a 2 or 3 piece of 1 dia . drill rod in a drill press or electric hand tool . Fashion a sharp scribing point about 3 long on one end , using Swiss pattern files . This tool can also be made with a lathe . 
Scientists say that the world and everything in it are based on mathematics . Without math the men who are continually seeking the causes of and the reasons for the many things that make the world go ound would not have any means of analyzing , standardizing , and communicating the things they discover and learn . Math and the formulas that allow it to be applied to different problems are , therefore , essential to any scientific endeavor . Hot rodding is a science . It not a science as involved as determining what makes the earth rotate on its axis or building a rocket or putting a satellite into orbit but it is , nevertheless , a science . But because science is based on mathematics doesn mean that a hot rodder must necessarily be a mathematician . A guy can be an active and successful hot rodder for years without becoming even remotely involved with mathematical problems ; owever , he will have a clearer understanding of what he is doing and the chances are he will be more successful if he understands the few formulas that apply to rodding . A mathematical formula is nothing more than a pattern for solving a specific problem . It places the various factors involved in the problem in their correct order in relation to each other so that the influence of factors on each other can be computed . The first step in using a formula is to insert the numerical values of the factors involved in their correct positions in the formula . This changes the formula to an `` equation . The equation is used for the mathematical process of solving the problem . Equations for rodding formulas are not complicated . They involve only simple mathematics that are taught in grammar school arithmetic classes . However , it is essential that the various mathematical symbols used in the equations be understood so that the mathematical processes can be done properly and in their correct order . They indicate simple division , multiplication , subtraction , and addition . The symbol for division is a straight line that separates two numbers placed one above the other . The lower number is always divided into the upper number : Af . The symbol for multiplication is `` **b . It is used to separate two or more numbers in a row . For example : Af . Numbers to be multiplied together may be multiplied in any order . The result will be the same regardless of the order used . The symbol for subtraction is the standard minus sign . This is nothing more than a dash . It separates two or more numbers . The number on the right of the symbol is always subtracted from the number on the left of the symbol . For example : Af . When more than two figures are separated by subtraction symbols the subtraction must be carried out from the left to right if the result is to be correct . For example , for the problem Af , 10 from 25 equals 15 , then 6 from 15 equals 9 . Addition is indicated by the + symbol . The symbol is used to separate two or more numbers . For example : Af . Numbers separated by addition symbols may be placed in any order . When solving an equation that involves division as well as other steps , do all the division steps first to reduce those parts of the equation to their numerical value . Multiplication , subtraction , and addition can then be accomplished as they appear in the equation by starting at the left end of the equation and working toward the right . Completing the division first also includes those division parts that require multiplication , subtraction , or addition steps : Af . This would be reduced by multiplying 8 times 6 and then dividing the product by 12 . This part of the equation would then become 4 . For use in formulas , fractions should be converted to their decimal equivalents . The easiest way to do this is with a conversion chart . Charts for this purpose are available from many sources . They are included in all types of mathematical handbooks and they are stamped on some types of precision measuring instruments . The various mathematical processes can be simplified by carrying the results to only two or three decimal places . Shortening the results in this manner will not have any detrimental effect on the accuracy of the final result . Some formulas contain `` constants . A constant is a number that remains the same regardless of the other numbers used in the formula and the resultant equation . It is a number without which the equation cannot be solved correctly . Rodding formulas apply to many phases of the sport . The answers they give can often pave the way to performance increases and , quite often , are necessary for completing entry blanks for different events . When it is needed , one formula is as important as another . However , some formulas are used more than others . We l take them in the general order of their popularity . Engine displacement A rodder should be able to compute the displacement of his engine . Displacement is sometimes referred to as `` swept volume . Most entry blanks for competitive events require engine displacement information because of class restrictions . It is good to be able to compute displacement so that changes in it resulting from boring and stroking can be computed . Factors involved in the displacement formula are the bore diameter of the engine cylinders , the length of the piston stroke , the number of cylinders in the engine , and a constant . The constant is , which is one-quarter of 3 . 1416 , another constant known as `` pi . Pi is used in formulas concerned with the dimensions of circles . Actually , the engine displacement formula is the standard formula for computing the volume of a cylinder of any type with an added factor that represents the number of cylinders in the engine . The cross-sectional area of the cylinders is determined and then the volume of the individual cylinders is computed by multiplying the area by the stroke length , which is the equivalent of the length of the cylinders . Multiplying the result by the number of cylinders in the engine gives the engine total displacement . The formula is : Af . Dimensions in inches , and fractions of inches will give the displacement in cubic inches . Dimensions in centimeters and fractions of centimeters will give the displacement in cubic centimeters ( cc . ) . One inch equals 2 . 54 centimeters : one cubic inch equals 16 . 38 cubic centimeters . For example , let consider a standard 283 cubic inch Chevy Aj . These engines have a cylinder diameter of 3-7 inches and a stroke length of 3 inches . The formula , with the fractions converted to decimals , becomes Af . To arrive at the answer , multiply the numbers together by starting at the left of the group and working to the right . The different steps will look like this : Af . Compression ratio A cylinder compression ratio is computed by comparing the cylinder volume , or its displacement , with the total volume of the cylinder and its combustion chamber . Cylinder volume can be determined mathematically but combustion chamber volume must be measured with a liquid . Cylinder volume is determined in exactly the same manner as for the displacement formula : Af . To measure the volume of one of the combustion chambers in the cylinder head , install the valves and spark plug in the chamber and support the head so that its gasket surface is level . Then pour water or light oil from a graduated beaker into the chamber to fill the chamber to its gasket surface . Do not overfill the chamber . This is possible with water and other liquids that have a high surface tension . Such liquids will rise to a considerable height above the surface around the chamber before they will flow out of the chamber . The amount of liquid poured into the chamber is determined by subtracting the quantity still in the beaker when the chamber is full from the original quantity . Most beakers are graduated in cubic centimeters ( cc . ) , making it necessary to convert the result to cubic inches . However , the displacement of the cylinder can be converted to cubic centimeters . The compression ratio arrived at with the formula will be the same regardless of whether cubic inches or cubic centimeters are used . The only precaution is that all volumes used in the formula be quoted in the same terms . The volume of the cylinder opening in the head gasket must be computed by multiplying its area in square inches by the gasket thickness in thousandths of an inch . Sometimes it is necessary to roughly calculate the square inch area of the opening but the calculation can usually be made with sufficient accuracy that it won affect the final computation . The volume of the opening is added to the combustion chamber volume . Another thing that must be taken into consideration is the volume of the area between the top of the piston and the top of the cylinder block when the piston is in top dead center position . Compute this volume by measuring the distance from the top of the block to the piston head as accurately as possible with a depth micrometer or some other precision measuring device and then multiply the area of the cylinder by the depth . The formula for this step is : Af . This volume is added to the total volume of the combustion chamber and head gasket opening . The total of these three volumes is the `` final combustion chamber volume . After the factors just described have been computed , they are applied to the following formula : Af . For an example let dream up an engine that has a final combustion chamber volume of 5 cubic inches and a cylinder volume of 45 cubic inches . Applying these figures to the formula we get the equation : Af . The compression ratio is 10 to 1 . This method of computing compression ratio cannot be used accurately for engines that have pistons with either domed or irregularly shaped heads . Any irregularity on the piston heads will make it impossible , with normal means , to determine the final combustion chamber volume because the volume displaced by the piston heads cannot be readily computed . The only way to determine the final combustion chamber volume when such pistons are used is by measuring it with liquid while the cylinder head is bolted to the cylinder block and the piston is in top dead center position . Gear ratio -- speed relationships There are four versions of the formula that involves the relationships of car speed , engine speed , rear axle gear ratio , and rear tire size . By using the appropriate version any one of these factors can be determined for any combination of the other three . To simplify the formulas a representative symbol is substituted for each of the factors . These are MPH for Car speed , for Engine crankshaft speed , for Rear axle gear ratio , for Tire size . Tire size can be determined in several ways but the one that is the easiest and as accurate as any is by measuring the effective radius of a wheel and tire assembly . This is done by measuring the distance from the surface on which the tire is resting to the center of the rear axle shaft . A tire must be inflated to its normal hot operating pressure and the car must be loaded to its operating weight when this measurement is made . The measurement must be in inches . Any fraction of an inch involved in the measurement must be converted to a decimal equivalent to simplify the mathematics . When tire size is measured in this manner a constant of 168 is used in the formula . To determine car speed for a given combination of engine speed , gear ratio , and tire size , the formula is : Af . For an engine speed of 5000 rpm , a gear ratio of 4 . 00 to 1 , and a tire radius of 13 inches , the equation would look like this : Af . To determine engine speed for a given combination of the other three factors the formula is : Af . Using the same figures as for the previous example , the equation becomes : Af . To determine the rear axle gear ratio for a combination of the other three factors , the formula is : Af . Using the figures from the previous examples , the equation becomes : Af . 
Orlando , Fla . , Feb . 2 -- The best 2-year-old pacing mile up to date at Ben White Raceway has been that of Mary Liner ( Mainliner-Highland Ellen ) , a member of the Dick Williams stable , who was clocked 2 : 25 . She is owned by Ralph H . Kroening , Milwaukee , Wis . , who , according to the railbirds , can feel justly proud of her . Other good miles have been by Debonnie ( Dale Frost-Debby Hanover ) and Prompt Time ( Adios-On Time ) in 2 : 28-: 36 ; imberly Gal ( Galophone-Kimberly Hanover ) 2 : 26 . 2 ; aguerre Hanover ( Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover ) and Monel ( Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd ) in 2 : 34 . Laguerre Hanover is outstanding in type and conformation -- good body , plenty of heart girth , stands straight on his legs on excellent feet -- and has the smoothest gait . This colt is behind most of the other 2-year-olds in the Simpson stable but can show about as much pace as any of them . Monel shows improvement with each work-out and looks the makings of a good brood mare after winning her share of races . Stardel ( Star Pride-Starlette Hanover ) , 2 : 34 , looks quite promising . Fury Hanover ( Hoot Mon-Fay ) , Caper ( Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover ) and Isaac ( Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover ) has been working together but have not equalled their best work done some weeks ago . Fury and Caper worked in 2 : 35 and did it with ease . They are two good colts of different type . Fury is upstanding and on the rangy side , and Caper is more the compact type . I have never seen Caper off his feet -- he seems to know nothing but ' trot ' and keeps trying a little harder if asked to do so . Fury has made a few mistakes but looks like a wonderful prospect , with his impressive gait and stride which certainly make him cover the ground . Trackdown ( Torrid-Mighty Lady ) has worked a mile in 2 : 33 . 3 . It took this colt several weeks to strike a pace . Then , after emasculation , he was eased up for a couple of weeks . He has thrived on all he has gone through and looks the makings of a good little race horse . Thor Hanover ( Adios-Trustful Hanover ) is a wonderful looking prospect and another good individual , with solid , rugged conformation , good , flat bone and excellent feet . This colt arrived at the Raceway early last November , and immediately was put into harness and line-driven for a few days , and then put to cart and broken in very nicely , knowing nothing but trot . He appeared in the hopples about November 14 , was treated for worms on the 18th , the latter date being the first time he struck a real pace . On December 5 he paced a mile in 55 on the twice-around , out in third position all the way . This colt has done everything asked of him , and done it with ease . His best mile to date is 2 : 32 . 2 . Gamecock ( Tar Heel-Terka Hanover ) is another promising colt , and his best time is 2 : 32 . 2 . This is one of the best-tempered Tar Heels ever at the center . The first time he was harnessed he stood like a gentle old mare ; he crupper under his tail seemed to be old stuff . The fourth time in harness he walked off like a gentleman . Being blistered for curbs has delayed his work somewhat . But up to date he has shown as much as any in the big Simpson stable . Hustler ( Knight Dream-Torkin ) is a playful bay rascal of a colt , not the best gaited , but he surely can pace and is right there with them , and sometimes leading them , in the best miles . Torrid Freight ( Torrid-Breeze On Hal ) is a very rugged , strong-made colt with a wonderful stride who has done with ease everything asked of him . His best time is around 2 : 33 . Strongheart ( Adios-Direct Gal ) , a fair-looking sorrel colt , knows nothing but pace and has been right there in the best miles . Torrid Adios ( Torrid-Adios Molly ) is not so masculine as most of the colts , but I like his type and he certainly is one of the best-gaited pacers on the grounds . Blistered for curbs and laid off three weeks , he is coming along fine and looks like a pacer to me . First Flyer ( Frisco Flyer-Castle Light ) looks like a splendid candidate for the Illinois Stakes . His best time is 2 : 33 . 2 . The colts in Simpson stable have little if anything on the fillies , especially the pacers . Justine Hanover ( Sampson Hanover-Justitia Hanover ) is improving with each work-out and paced 2 : 32 . 4 weeks ago . Mrs . Freight ( Knight Dream-Miss Reed ) shows promise and does it in good form , and her best time is about 2 : 35 . Hoopla ( Tar Heel-Holiday Hanover ) , a filly that wanted to trot , knocked herself October 31 and November 1 fighting the hopples . She was then trained on the trot until December 29 , hitched to a breaking cart once around the half-mile track and hoppled again . This time she submitted and in a few days was going good . On January 11 she paced a mile in 2 : 43 . 1--: 38 ; n Jan . 18 2 : 37 . 3--: 36 . 1 ; n Jan . 21 , , 2 : 36 . This filly is a much better individual than either of her full-sisters , Valentine Day and Cerise -- more scale and much better underpinning . She is more like her full brother , Taraday Hanover , but larger . Up to date she is a grand-looking filly . Pete Dailey has four promising 2-year-old pacers . Marquis Pick ( Gene Abbe-Direct Grattan ) seems to be the pick of the stable at the present time . He is a fine-looking colt with a good body , good set of legs and nice way of going . His best mile to date is 2 : 28-: 33 . Majestic Pick comes next , with a mile in 2 : 30-: 33 . 2 . This colt is another fine-looking equine . Staley Hanover ( Knight Dream-Sweetmite Hanover ) is a little on the small side but a very compact colt and looks like one to stand training and many future battles with colts in his class . Best time to date is 2 : 34-: 34 . Step Aside ( Direct Rhythm-Wily Widow ) has worked in 2 : 32 on the half-mile track and shows promise . Most of Billy Haughton 2-year-olds have worked from 2 : 40 to 2 : 35 . Bonnie Wick ( Gene Abbe-Scotch Mary ) has gone in 2 : 36 ; ickory Ash ( Titan Hanover-Misty Hanover ) in 2 : 35 . The first time I saw the latter filly she trotted by me and I noticed such a family resemblance that I said to myself , `` that must be Hickory Ash . She is a beautiful filly and likes to trot . Hickory Hill ( Star Pride-Venus Hanover ) has gone in 2 : 33 ; ickory Spark ( Harlan-Hickory Tiny ) 2 : 37 ; uxton Hanover ( Tar Heel-Beryl Hanover ) 2 : 35 ; aber Kathy ( Faber Hanover-Ceyway ) 2 : 37 ; onor Rodney ( Rodney-Honor Bright ) around 2 : 40 . The last-named is a fine-looking , large colt , who has been unfortunate to be laid off for some time due to injuries . He is going sound again now , and looks good . Brief Candle ( Harlan-Marcia ) has gone in 2 : 37 ; ena Faber ( Faber Hanover-Chalidale Lena ) 2 : 33 ; artha Rodney ( Rodney-Miss Martha D . ) 2 : 35 ; heckit ( Faber Hanover-Supermarket ) 2 : 35 ; harm Rodney ( Rodney-The Charmer ) 2 : 37 ; air Sail ( Farvel-Topsy Herring ) 2 : 36 ; ustom Maid ( Knight Dream-Way Dream ) 2 : 34 . 2 ; acky Dares ( ( Meadow Gene-Princess Lorraine ) 2 : 36 ; ood Flying ( Good Time-Olivette Hanover ) 2 : 36 ; ordner Hanover ( Tar Heel-Betty Mahone ) 2 : 34 ; aber Choice ( Faber Hanover-Sally Joe Whippet ) 2 : 36 ; nvercalt ( Florican-Inverness ) 2 : 35 ; uffy Dares ( Meadow Gene-Princess Mite ) 2 : 36 ; arold J . ( Worthy Boy-Lady Scotland ) 2 : 36 ; nightfall ( Knight Dream-Miss Worthy Grapes ) 2 : 36 ; ext Knight ( Knight Dream-Next Time ) 2 : 36 ; rader Jet ( Florican-My Precious ) 2 : 37 ; rader Rich ( Worthy Boy-Marquita Hanover ) 2 : 37 ; ood Little Girl ( Good Time-Mynah Hanover ) 2 : 36 ; osola Hanover ( Kimberly Kid-Isoletta Hanover ) 2 : 36 . The last-named is one of the favorites in the stable , and the boys like her very much . I will be able to tell you more about this string of equines in the near future . I have just seen Debonnie and Prompt Time work a mile in 2 : 34 , last quarter in : 35 . 3 . In going away Debonnie got behind several lengths , stalling at the start -- she is a little fussy . They left the three-quarters together and finished almost together . Prompt Time shows class . This filly is another Adios that wants to trot , and trot she did until forced to do otherwise . After well broken and equipped with 12-oz . shoes on behind , bare-footed in front , she would trot a real storm with the master , Delvin , driving . Being placed in the hopples she was completely baffled . She hesitated , she hopped , she rolled and rocked , skipped and jumped , but in some two weeks she started to pace , From that time to this she has shown steady improvement and now looks like one of the classiest things on the grounds . Rain on Friday prevented many workouts , but there were a few miles of note on Thursday . Those responsible included Stardel Hanover ( Star Pride-Starlette Hanover ) , 2 : 30-: 34 . 3 ; orena Gallon ( Bill Gallon-Loren Hanover ) , 2 : 30-: 34 . 3 ; rudent Hanover ( Dean Hanover-Precious Hanover ) , 2 : 30 . 3-: 35 . 3 ; remium Freight ( Titan Hanover-Pebble Hanover ) , 2 : 30 . 3-35 . 3 ; aguerre Hanover ( ( Tar Heel-Lotus Hanover ) , 2 : 30 . 3-: 36 . 1 ; onel ( Tar Heel-Miracle Byrd ) , 2 : 30 . 3-: 36 . 1 ; ury Hanover ( Hoot Mon-Fay ) , 2 : 30 . 3-: 36 ; saac ( Hoot Mon-Goddess Hanover ) , 2 : 30 . 3-: 36 ; aper ( Hoot Mon-Columbia Hanover ) , 2 : 30 . 3-: 36 ; ucky Freight ( Knight Dream-Lusty Helen ) , 2 : 31 . 3-: 35 . 3 . Sam Caton Butterwyn ( Scotch Victor-Butler Wyn ) , a light bay filly , knows nothing but trot and has worked on the half-mile in 2 : 30-: 36 . Riverboat ( Dalzell-Cousin Rachel ) has gone in 2 : 38 . Sam is having his troubles with Layton Hanover ( Dean Hanover-Lucy Hanover ) , but hopes to have him straightened out and going before long . Jimmy Jordon is high on Adios Scarlet ( Adios-Rena Grattan ) and she sure looks good as she goes by . Her best time to date is about 2 : 30 . He also likes Hampton Hanover ( Titan Hanover-Bertie Hanover ) 2 : 37 . Cathy J . Hanover ( Tar Heel-Kaola Hanover ) , formerly called Karet Hanover , has been rather a problem child , but is getting better all the while and can pace a twice around in about 2 : 31 . Armbro Comet ( Nibble Hanover-Mauri Hanover ) has been in 2 : 38 . Flick Nipe and Neil Engle Miss Phone ( Galophone-Prissy Miss ) is a fine-looking filly with good disposition and good gait , and she has worked up to date in 2 : 46 . Del Mar , Calif . , Feb . 3 -- After 52 rainless days , moisture finally came to Del Mar , resulting in but one workout during the week for most of the horses , and leaving us with less than half our total average rainfall during the season . While 2-year-olds are still gaining most of the attention at the track , green horses are starting to go a bit , and Jimmy Cruise has several that can really make it . Work-outs for the week are as follows : Plain Scotch , 3 ( by Scotch Victor ) , Demon Law , 3 ( by Demon Hanover ) , Coffee Royal , p ( by Royal Blackstone ) and Beauty Way , p , 3 ( by Demon Hanover ) in 25 ; ddie Duke , p , 3 ( by Duke Of Lullwater ) , Marilyn C . , p ( by Sampson Hanover ) and Chalidale Barry , 5 ( by King Ransom ) in 2 : 20 ; iger Hanover , p , 3 ( by Adios ) in 2 : 26 ; herwood Lass , 4 ( by Victory Song ) in 2 : 22 ; nd Dauntless , 3 ( by Greentree Adios ) in 2 : 32 . For the aged horses : Mr . Budlong , p , 2 : 00 . 2 , Lottie Thomas , p , 2 : 04 . 2 , Mighty Signal 2 : 03 , Clever Braden , p , 2 : 01 . 1 , and Glow Star , p , 2 : 02 . 3 have been in 2 : 35 ; iss Demon Abbe , p , 1 : 59 . 3 has trotted in 2 : 26 , and is expected to race at this gait ; arter Creed , p , 3 , 2 : 01 . 1 , Great Lullwater 2 : 00 . 3 , and Hi Jay , p , 2 : 05 . 1 have been in 2 : 30 ; anker T . , 3 , 2 : 05 . 3 is now wearing hopples and has trained in 2 : 19 ; tormy Dream , p , 2 : 01 . 3 , Demon Abbe , p , 2 : 02 , Dundeen B . , 4 , 2 : 04 . 2 , Claudia Song , 3 , 2 : 06 . 3 , and ( Jet Fire , 4 , 2 : 02 . 2 have been in 2 : 25 ; aria Key , 2 , 2 : 06 looked great in 2 : 22 ; ocking Byrd , p , 2 : 01 . 1 has been in 2 : 12 , with a racing date approaching at Bay Meadows . Dewey Urban has a clever green trotter in Dr . Orin I . , 3 ( by Yankee Hanover ) , his latest mile in 2 : 20 ; ictory Sun , p , 2 : 04 has trained in 2 : 24 ; arly Sun , p , 2 : 02 . 3 , Chester Maid 2 : 05 , Dark Sun , p , 2 : 06 . 1 , and Sun Tan Maid 2 : 05 . 2 have been in 2 : 21 . 
The average reader of this magazine owns more than one gun ( we ran a survey to find out ) but he always on the lookout for new and better arms . He more than a reader of outdoor articles ; e a real hunter and shooter , eager to improve his sport . Well , if you e that kind of sportsman we e here to help you . You e probably given a lot of Christmas-season thought to the guns in your rack , but it not easy to decide on a new one . You still have time to drop a few hints about the gifts you appreciate most ; he time to decide on them is now . As a Christmas service , I e taken a close look at this year crop of new models . Here they are , with my comments and judgments . Read on , take your pick -- and start dropping those hints . First on my own list would be two arms -- a rifle and a handgun -- that qualify as new in the strictest sense . For me , a changed barrel length or an improved stock doesn constitute a truly new design . Such modifications are all for the best but it takes something as different as a Deerstalker or a Jet to change arms-making concepts . Bill Ruger long-awaited Deerstalker ( under $110 ) is a new rifle action in a caliber that upsets all the modern theory of high-velocity fans ; t a short , light , quick-handling , fast-firing little timber gun designed to push a heavy slug at modest velocity but with lots of killing power and ample range for our most popular big game -- whitetail . Ruger reports that on his recent African safari the little Magnum cartridge was a real work horse . Small antelope were generally grassed with one shot , and the Magnum carbine also bagged reedbuck , kob and wart hog with deadly efficiency ; hese are fairly large , tough animals . The deadliness of the Magnum in a rifle comes as no surprise to me . At least five years ago , Tom Robinson of Marlin made up an over double rifle for me in this caliber , using the now defunct Model 90 action in 20-gauge size . After figuring out how to regulate the barrels so that they shot to the same point of impact , we fired this little 20-inch-barrel job on my home range and in Marlin underground test gallery . We quickly ran into the same trouble that plagued Bill Ruger in his first experiments : Three or four bullets would be placed well in a six-inch bull at 100 yards and then , unaccountably , one could stray far out of the group . Ruger learned that this was because the higher velocity achieved in a long barrel was upsetting the shape of the unjacketed revolver bullet . The new , jacketed slug in Magnum corrected this . But even without jacketed bullets , I had enough faith in my double to take it on an opening-day deer hunt that first year . Within half an hour I jumped a six-point buck that hop-skipped through a rhododendron thicket , and I caught him just behind the left foreleg at 60 yards . He moved only about 30 feet after the 240-grain slug hit him -- and this was after the bullet had passed through a sapling . Three more deer have fallen to this same gun , and all were one-shot kills . My double was made with standard-weight revolver barrels ( before cutting to revolver length ) , and although it compares well in other respects , it considerably heavier than the Deerstalker , which only scales about 6-1 pounds . If ever a rifle met the needs of the whitetail hunter , this is it . The Deerstalker points with the ease , speed and precision of a fine imported double shotgun , and its trigger pull is light and sharp . The 240-grain bullet leaves the muzzle at 1 , 850 fps , which gives it all the smash needed at woods ranges . With five shots at the immediate command of the hunter trigger finger , the gun and load are a deadly combination . The second really new development this year was a revolver handling a different sort of varmint load -- the Remington Jet Magnum Center Fire . At present it available in one model , the fine and familiar Smith & Wesson Magnum revolver ( about $110 ) , long a top-quality handgun among target arms . The velocity of this , 40-grain bullet is rated at a very hot 2 , 460 fps , and it the flattest shooting of any revolver cartridge , with a mid-range rise of about an inch over a 100-yard range . This is a varmint load , pure and simple ; t much too explosive for small edible game . It can cut a red squirrel neatly in two or burst a crow into a flurry of feathers . The most intriguing aspect of the S & W Magnum chambered for the new Jet is that it can also fire standard rim-fires by means of adapter sleeves in the chambers . You may therefore convert the gun into a small-game and plinking arm , although the difference in the point of impact ( Jet vs . rim-fire ) can be somewhat disconcerting . The accuracy of the Jet cartridge is fine ; tested it in my scoped S & W and it was good enough to allow me to hit a chuck with every shot at 100 yards if I did my part by holding the handgun steadily . Hunting rifles , 1 The fact that the Deerstalker and the Jet were the only completely new designs this year doesn mean that 1961 didn see changes in models , actions and calibers . Aside from the Ruger carbine , a number of hunting rifles have been introduced for the first time . Here are the brands ( in alphabetical order ) and the new models . Newcomers to the American hunter are the Browning group of bolt-action , high-power rifles . They have fine FN actions and a better-than-average finish on both the metal and the stock wood . Barrel weights vary sensibly with the various calibers available , and these include the standard bores ( about $165 ) plus the Magnums ( around $170 ) ; he latter include the , S & H , , and . Shotgun-type rubber recoil pads are standard on all of the Magnums except the . Stock designs are excellent for use with scopes . Colt center-fire 1961 rifles are all made with Sako actions , regardless of caliber . The have the short action ; he and , the medium action , and the , Af and the Magnums , the long action ( about $135 for the Standard Coltsman and $200 for the Custom version ) . Previously , FN actions were used for the larger cartridges . High Standard has introduced a auto , the Sport-King , in two grades -- field and special ( less than $45 and just over $45 , respectively ) . It a streamlined rifle , fast and well-made . Among Magnum Rim-Fire rifles , 1961 lone newcomer was the Kodiak Model 260 autoloader ( around $60 ) . Previously known as Jefferson Arms , Kodiak has given this 11-shot hammerless job an exceptionally fine stock design , and the 260 is the first autoloader to handle Magnum rim-fires . Marlin has made two contributions to the harvest of new offerings . The Model 99 ( under $45 ) is a light-weight , streamlined rim-fire auto with a tubular magazine that holds 18 Long Rifles . It extremely accurate for an auto , and the test rifle I tried was completely trouble-free in functioning . The 989 ( about $40 ) is an even newer auto , this one with a seven- or 12-shot clip . Once again the Mossberg Targo outfit has appeared , but this time as a bolt-action rifle-shotgun combination . The bore is unrifled but is provided with an insert tube which is rifled and which , surprisingly , gives pretty fair accuracy even though it only 3-1 inches long . You can unscrew this tube and replace it with a smoothbore insert for use with shotshells -- to break the little Targo clay targets . A trap for throwing these miniature clays fastens to the barrel so that the shooter can throw his own targets . A spring trap for solid mounting and a regular hand trap are also available . You can have your choice of a seven-shot repeater , the 340TR ( about $40 ) or a single-shot , the 320TR ( $10 less ) . The Targo is a good outfit for fun shooting or for economic wing-shooting practice , but it tougher than it looks to run up a score on the clay birds . They l travel 50 feet or more when thrown from the spring trap but it almost impossible to break one after it passes the 35-foot mark . The combination of thin pattern and very tiny pellets makes it necessary to get on the birds , right now ! Big Magnum calibers appeared in the Remington line for 1961 , with the addition of the and to the list of Model 725 . These are made on special order only , in Kodiak grade ( about $310 ) , with integral muzzle brakes and heavy rubber recoil pads ; hey weigh around nine pounds . A shortened version of the highly regarded Remington 742 autoloader also appeared in 1961 . This carbine ( under $140 , about $15 more for a deluxe grade ) has an 18-1 barrel and was obviously inspired by the popularity of last year Model 760 pump with a short-barrel . This design is hard to beat for timber hunting or for packing in a saddle scabbard . Presently , the 742C is available in Af . The latest versions of the famous Savage Model 99 are the 99 Featherweight ( about $125 ) and the 99 Deluxe ( under $135 ) , which have a top-tang safety and improved trigger design . The replacement of the slide-lock side safety catch will make this lever-action favorite more appealing than ever since the new safety is easier and faster to operate . Beginners ' guns , 1 A fresh crop of beginners ' guns showed up in 1961 , and they e good bets for your Christmas gift list if you e wondering what to get for a youngster . The most unusual of them is the Ithaca 49 ( about $20 , $5 for a saddle scabbard ) -- a lever-action single-shot patterned after the famous Winchester lever-action and featuring the Western look . Because of its traditional lines , it probably has more kid appeal than any other model . The action is a drop-block , handling all the standard rim-fires . Marlin latest is also designed for the beginning shooter , although it a full-sized rifle with plenty of barrel weight and ample stock . This is the Model 122 ( about $20 ) ; t a single-shot bolt-action with an automatic safety -- i . e . , the safety goes on every time the bolt is lifted and the gun cocked for the next shot . Stock design is excellent , and this model is a good first gun . Another boy model is the single-shot Remington 514C ( around $20 ) , which comes with a 21-inch barrel and a short -- 12-1 -- stock ; t just right for a boy of 12-1 . A beginner shotgun has also been introduced this year . The single-barrel Stevens 940Y ( under $35 ) is made with a side lever rather than a top-tang lever because many youngsters aren strong enough to operate a top tang to open a gun -- and the side lever does indeed open very easily . This gun has a 12-1 stock and is available in either 20 or gauge . There another addition to the Stevens line , the pump-action Model 77 in ( under $75 ) , which you may or may not consider a kid gun ; any experienced hunters like this gauge and type of scattergun too . Shotguns , 1 Although there were no startling developments in shotgun design this year , a number of new models and variations of existing models did hit the market . For example , a Browning trap version of the Superposed over , the Broadway ( from $350 up , depending on grade ) , differs from standard models in that it is equipped with a full beavertail fore end , a cushion recoil pad and a barrel-wide ventilated rib for fast sighting . The Colt line now includes a new scattergun , the Standard or Custom Pump Model ( about $90 and $150 , respectively ) in 12 , 16 and 20 . Firearms International has introduced another import , this one from Finland . It the Valmet ( about $170 ) , a 12-gauge over very much like the old Remington 32 -- which was so fine a gun that today a used one still brings high prices . High Standard has also added two models to its line . The Supermatic Trophy ( prices begin at less than $135 and depend on grade and optional features ) is a 12-gauge auto . The Flite-King Trophy ( beginning at just over $85 ) is a pump gun in 12 or 16 . Either model is a very good dollar value . Mossberg latest contribution to the field is the Model 500 ( from $73 . 50 ) ; his is an improved version of the old Model 200 , a pump-action 12-gauge shotgun . See page 24 for a complete report on it . Handguns , 1 Aside from the Jet -- which I coupled with the Deerstalker carbine as one of the year two biggest developments -- few significant innovations appeared among 1961 handguns . 
Livery stable -- J . Vernon , prop . . Coaching had declined considerably by 1905 , but the sign was still there , near the old Wells Fargo building in San Francisco , creaking in the fog as it had for thirty years . John Vernon had had all the patronage he cared for -- he had prospered , but he could not retire from horsedom . Coaching was in his blood . He had two interests in life : the pleasures of the table and driving . Twice a week he drove his tallyho over the Santa Cruz road , upland and through the redwood forest , with orchards below him at one hand , and glimpses of the Pacific at the other . The journey back he made along the coast road , traveling hell-for-leather , every lantern of the tallyho ablaze . The southward route was the classic run in California , and the most fashionable . His patronage on this stretch was made up largely of San Franciscans -- regulars , most of them , and trenchermen like himself . They did not complain at the inhuman hour of starting ( seven in the morning ) , nor of the tariff , which was reasonable since it covered everything but the tobacco . Breakfast was at the Palace Hotel , luncheon was somewhere in the mountain forest , and dinner was either at Boulder Creek or at Santa Cruz . Gazing too long at the scenery could be tiring , so halts were contrived between meals . Then the Chinese hostler , who rode with Vernon on the box , would break open a hamper and produce filets of smoked bass or sturgeon , sandwiches , pickled eggs , and a rum sangaree to be heated over a spirit lamp . In spring and in autumn the run was made for a group of botanists which included an old friend of mine . They gathered roots , bulbs , odd ferns , leaves , and bits of resin from the rare Santa Lucia fir , which exists only on a forty-five mile strip on the westerly side of these mountains . In the Spanish days Franciscan monks roamed here to collect the resin for incense . It yields a fragrance as Orphic as that of the pastilles of Malabar . Vernon was serviceable on the botanical field trips , but he could arrange no schedule with the cooks , and he was glad when the trips dropped off , and the botanists began to motor out by themselves . My friend often breakfasted with Vernon on the morning of the regular tallyho run . This was an honor , like dining with a captain at his private table . Vernon office adjoined the stable , and the walls were adorned with brightly colored lithographs , the folk art of the period . They advertised harness polish , liniments , Ball Rubber Boots , Green River Whiskey , Hood Sarsaparilla , patent medicines , shoe blacking , and chewing tobacco . The hostler would have the table ready and a pot of coffee hissing on the stove ; hen a porter from Manning Fish House would trot in with a tray on his head . It was draped with snowy napkins that kept hot a platter of oyster salt roast and a mound of corn fritters . Vernon was consummately fond of oysters , and Manning had been famous for them since the Civil War . Oyster salt roast -- oysters on the half shell , cooked on a bed of coarse salt that kept them hot when served -- was a standby at Manning . Its early morning patrons were coachmen , who fortified themselves for the day with that delicacy . In the 1890 the Palace Hotel began serving an oyster dish named after its manager , John C . Kirkpatrick . This dish much resembles the oysters Rockefeller made famous by Antoine in New Orleans , though the Palace chef announced it as a variant of Manning roast oysters . ( Gastronomes have long argued about which came first , the Palace or Antoine . Antoine held as mandatory a splash of absinthe or Pernod on the parsley or spinach which was used for the underbedding . The Kirkpatrick version holds liqueur as optional . ) Vernon , however , held out for plain oyster roast , and plenty of it , unadorned by herbs or any seasoning but salt , though he did fancy a bit of lemon . After the meal , he and his guests went out to inspect the rig ; his was merely a ritual , to please all hands concerned . The tallyho had cost Vernon $2 , 300 . A replica of two coaches made in England for the Belmont Club in the East , and matchless west of the Rockies , it was the despair of whips on the Santa Cruz run . One could shave in the reflection of its French-polished panels , and its axles were greased like those of roulette wheels . The horses were groomed to a high gloss ; eparting , they stepped solemnly with knees lifted to the jaw , for they had been trained to drag at important funerals . But for the start of the Santa Cruz run , the whip fell . The clients boarded the tallyho at the Palace promptly at seven . They had been fed a hunting breakfast , so called because a kedgeree , the dish identified with fox hunting , was on the bill . There are many ways of making a kedgeree , every one of which is right . Here is an original kedgeree recipe from the Family Club kitchen : Club Kedgeree Flake ( for three ) a cupful of cold boiled haddock , mix with a cupful of cooked rice , two minced hard-boiled eggs , some buttery white sauce done with cream , cayenne , pepper , salt , a pinch of curry , a tablespoonful of minced onion fried , and a bit of anchovy . Heat and serve hot on toast . The omelet named for Ernest Arbogast , the Palace chef , was even more in demand . For decades it was the most popular dish served in the Ladies ' Grill at breakfast , and it is one of the few old Palace dishes that still survive . Native California oysters , salty and piquant , as coppery as Delawares and not much larger than a five-cent piece , went into it . The original formula goes thus : omelet Arbogast Fry in butter a small minced onion , rub with a tablespoonful of flour , add half a cup of cream , six beaten eggs , pepper , celery salt , a teaspoonful of minced chives , a dash of cayenne , and a pinch of nutmeg . A jigger of dry Sherry follows , and as the mixture stiffens , in go a hundred of the little oysters . Louis Sherry once stayed a fortnight at the Palace , and he was so pleased with omelet Arbogast that he introduced it at his restaurant in New York J . Pierpont Morgan had come in his private train to San Francisco , to attend an Episcopal convention , and brought the restaurateur with him . As things happened , Morgan was installed in the Nob Hill residence of a magnate friend , whose kitchen swarmed with cooks of approved talent . Sherry remained in his hotel suite , where he amused himself as best he could . Twice he left everything to his entourage , and fled to make the Santa Cruz tour under Vernon guidance . In the grand court of the Palace , notable for its tiers of Moorish galleries that looked down on the maelstrom of vehicles below , Vernon station was at the entrance . It was a post of honor , held inviolate for him ; e had the primacy among the coachmen . Of majestic build , rubicund and slash-mouthed , he resembled the late General Winfield Scott , who was said to be the most imposing general of his century , if not of all centuries . Vernon wore a gray tall hat , a gardenia , and maroon Wellington boots that glistened like currant jelly . Promptly at seven he would clatter out of the court with twelve in the tallyho . He had style : he held his reins in a loose bunch at the third button of his checked Epsom surtout , and when the horses leaned at a curve , as if bent by the force of a gale , he leaned with them . They cantered down the peninsula , not slackening until the coach reached Woodside where the Santa Cruz uplands begin . The road maps of the region have changed since 1905 ; nns have burned down , moved elsewhere , or taken other names . Once on the road ( and especially if the passengers were all regulars and masculine ) , the schedule meant nothing . An agreeable ease suffused Vernon and the passengers of the tallyho , from which there issued clouds of smoke . Vernon would tilt his hat over one ear as he lounged with his feet on the dashboard , indulging in a huge cigar . The horses moved at a clump ; hey were no more on parade than was their driver ; ne fork of the road was as good as another . The Santa Cruz mountains sprawl over three counties , and the roads twist through sky-tapping redwoods down whose furrowed columns ripple streams of rain , even when heat bakes the Santa Clara valley below at the left . The water splashes into shoulder-high tracts of fernery . You arrive there in seersucker , and feel you were half-witted not to bring a mackintosh . Vernon kept an account book with a list of all the establishments that he thought worthy of patronage . A number of them must have fallen into disfavor ; hey were struck out with remarks in red ink , denouncing both the cooks and the management . He was copious in his praise of those that served food that was good to eat . The horses seemed to know these by instinct , he used to say : such places invariably had stables with superior feed bins . There was Wright , for one , lost amongst trees , its wide verandas strewn with rockers . Many of its sojourners were devoted to seclusion and quiet , and lived there to the end of their days . It was the haunt of writer Ambrose Bierce , who admired its redwoods . Acorns from the great oaks fed the small black pigs ( akin to Berkshires ) , whose `` carcass sweepstakes were renowned . Their ham butts , cured in oak-log smoke , were also esteemed when roasted or boiled , and served with this original sauce : Wright devil sauce ; ut into a saucepan a cupful of the baked ham gravy , or of the boiled ham liquor , with a half stick of butter , three teaspoonfuls of made mustard , and two mashed garlic cloves . Contribute also an onion , a peeled tomato and two pickled gherkins , and a mashed lime . After this has simmered an hour , add two tablespoons each of Worcestershire , catsup , and chutney , two pickled walnuts , and a pint of Sherry . Then simmer fifteen minutes longer . Every winter a kegful of this sauce was made and placed at the end of a row of four other kegs in the cellar , so that when its turn came , it was properly mellowed . Vineyards and orchards also grew around Wright , and deer were rather a nuisance ; hey leaped six-foot fences with the agility of panthers . But no one complained when they wound up , regardless of season , in venison pies . No one complained of the white wine either : at this altitude of two thousand feet , grapes acquire a dryness and the tang of gunflint . ( The Almaden vineyards have now climbed to this height . ) Apple trees grew there also . Though creeks in the Santa Cruz mountains flow brimful the year round and it is forever spring , the apples that grow there have a wintry crackle . Dwellers thereabouts preferred to get their apple pies at the local bakery , which had a brick oven fired with redwood billets . The merit of the pie , Vernon believed , was due more to its making than to the waning heat of the oven . The recipe , which he got from the baker , and wrote down in his ledger , is basically this : Wright apple pie ; eel , core , and slice across enough apples to make a dome in the pie tin , and set aside . In a saucepan put sufficient water to cover them , an equal amount of sugar , a sliced lemon , a tablespoonful of apricot preserve or jam , a pinch each of clove and nutmeg , and a large bay leaf . Let this boil gently for twenty minutes , then strain . Poach the apples in this syrup for twelve minutes , drain them , and cool . Set the apples in the pastry-lined tin , spread over them three tablespoonfuls of softened butter , with as much brown sugar , a sprinkling of nutmeg , and a fresh bay leaf , then lay on a cover of pastry , and gild it with beaten yolk of egg . 
Those who have never traveled the width and length of this land cannot conceive , on the basis of textbook description alone , the overwhelming space and variety of this country held together under one government . The miracle of democratic America comes home to one most strongly only when one has seen the endless Great Plains of the Midwest ; he sky-reaching peaks of the Northwest mountains ; he smoke-filled , art-filled , drama-filled life of the great cities of the East ; he lush and historic charm of the South . Now , to add to the already unbelievable extremes found in one nation , we have the two new states of Hawaii and Alaska . To hope to cover just one region of this land and to enjoy all of its sights and events and , of course , to bring back pictures of your experiences , requires advance planning . For this reason , U . S . Camera has prepared this special U . S . A . vacation feature . We divided the country into five regions plus Hawaii and Alaska and in each is included a general description of the area plus specific recommendations of places and events to cover . Any special photographic requirements are also given . Use this section to plan now to make the most of your vacation in photogenic America . The Northeast birthplace of the nation , the Northeast offers historic battlefields ; ovely old villages and a rugged seashore among its many worthwhile sights . The rolling farms of Maryland , the peerless metropolis of New York City , the verdant mountains of Vermont can all be included in your Northeast vacation . By automobile from New York , for example , you can take a one or two-day tour to Annapolis , Maryland to see the colonial homes and the U . S . Naval Academy ( where you can shoot the dress parade on Wednesdays ) ; o Washington , D . C . , for an eye-filling tour of the city ; r to Lancaster , Pa . , the center of the Pennsylvania Dutch country ; hiladelphia with its historic buildings and nearby Valley Forge ; o West Point , N . Y . , the famous military academy in a beautiful setting on the Hudson River . New England deserves as much of your vacation time as you can afford with such areas as Cape Cod providing wonderful beaches , artists ' colonies and quaint townships . From here you can easily include a side trip to the old whaling port of Nantucket , Massachusetts , which looks just as it must have two centuries ago . At Sturbridge Village , Massachusetts , you l find a completely-restored New England town . North to Acadia National Park , Maine , with views of a rockbound coast and dark , magnificent forests . One of the most exciting ways to end a Northeast vacation would be with a week in New York City . Return through New England , stopping for a visit to Lake Champlain where you can take a boat ride and go to Ethan Allen Park . There you l witness a view which includes the Adirondack Mts . and the Winooski River . Now you e ready for a whirlwind sightseeing tour of America most exciting city . The skyline , the bridges , Broadway , and the Staten Island ferry are only a few of the spots to put on your `` must list for New York City . Photographing in the Northeast Some tips for shooting in Northeastern locales : In New York City don miss coverage of the United Nations . These striking , modernistic buildings on the East River are open to the public and every weekday guided tours are available . Pictures can be taken in the public areas and when on tours . However , the use of tripods is not allowed . Photos of Conference Rooms and the General Assembly Hall can be made when these rooms are not being used for meetings . Flash is allowed , subject to above restrictions . Around New England , you l no doubt want a color shot of one of the picturesque lighthouses . Be careful here not to overexpose this subject since they are extremely bright and light-reflecting . In color , 1 of a second between Af and Af will do for bright , frontal sunlight . The South the southern United States , extending from Florida in the east to Texas in the west , still maintains its unique flavor of gracious living and historical elegance . It encompasses in its expanse areas where the natural beauty encourages a vacation of quiet contemplation , on the one hand , to places where entertainment and spectacles of all sorts have been provided for the tourist with camera . Of special interest this anniversary year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields where , likely as not , you l catch some memorial re-enactments . Among the locales to visit are Shiloh , Tennessee ; ookout Mountain , Tennessee ; icksburg , Mississippi ; ichmond , Virginia ; etersburg , Virginia , and Fredericksburg , Virginia . Florida provides tropical scenes unequalled in the United States . At Cypress Gardens special bleachers are set up for photographers at water-ski shows and lovely models pose for pictures in garden settings . Silver Springs features glass-bottom boat rides and in Everglades National Park there are opportunities to photograph rare wildlife . Miami Beach and surroundings feature fabulous `` hotel row , palm-studded beaches plus the Miami Seaquarium and Parrot Jungle . One of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of New Orleans . The famous old French and Spanish buildings with their elaborate wrought iron balconies and the narrow streets of the Latin Quarter present an Old World scene . For restoration of early American life the places to visit are Williamsburg , Jamestown and Yorktown , Virginia . Another Virginia sight and a photographic adventure are the Luray Caverns , lit by photofloodlights . The great state of Texas offers metropolitan attractions such as the Dallas Fair Park with its art and natural history museums . In contrast are the vast open stretches of ranch country and oil wells . In San Antonio visit the famous Alamo and photograph 18th Century Spanish buildings and churches . The Great Smoky Mountains is another area of the South well worth a visit . Along the 127-mile route through Great Smoky Mountains National Park you can photograph the breath-taking peaks , gorges and valleys which come into view at every turn . Gatlinburg , Tennessee , is the center of this area . Another scenic spot in Tennessee is Chattanooga where the Rock City Gardens are not to be missed . Beautiful homes and gardens are trademarks of the South and cities particularly noted for them are Charleston , S . C . , Natchez , Miss . , and Savannah , Ga . . At Charlottesville , Va . , shoot Monticello and the beautiful buildings of the University . Picturing the south Foliage is the outstanding photo subject in many of the Southern locales mentioned above and some specific tips on how and where to shoot it are in order . For example , the Chamber of Commerce of Gatlinburg , Tennessee , sponsors special camera tours into the Great Smoky Mountains to get pictures of the profusion of wild flowers flourishing in these wooded regions . Exposure problems may occur in these forest areas where uneven lighting results from shafts of sunlight filtering through the overhead branches . Best solution is to find an area that is predominantly sunlight or shade . In any instance , you should determine the exposure according to the type of light which falls on most of the subject area . Try some closeups on Southern blossoms to provide a welcome contrast with the many long-view scenics you l be making . For shooting the interiors of the famous ante-bellum Southern mansions make sure your equipment includes a tripod . Enough daylight is usually available from the windows , but if you have synchronized flash -- use it . For some unusual photographic subjects , if your vacation takes you nearby , try these events : the 600-mile auto race in Charlotte , N . C . , , on May 27 ; he Florida Folk Festival , White Springs , May 5-7 ; inging On The Mountain in Linville , North Carolina , on June 25 . Peak action photography is your goal at Miami Seaquarium and the Cypress Gardens waterskiing events . The Midwest A pleasant start to your midwestern vacation is a few days spent in cosmopolitan Chicago . Lake Michigan offers swimming and pictures which combine cityscapes with beaches . A visit to Chicago museums and a stroll around broad Michigan Avenue will unfold many photogenic subjects to the alert photographer . Wisconsin Dells , where fantastically scenic rocks carved by the Wisconsin River are overgrown with fern and other foliage , rates a stopover when traveling from Chicago . The farmlands forming the heart of America stretch out across the Midwest from Chicago . In North Dakota the strangely beautiful Badlands will challenge you to translate its wonder on to film . While here , visit Theodore Roosevelt National Park for its spectacular scenery . Another spot with an image-provoking name is the Black Hills where you can visit the old frontier mining town of Deadwood . The Black Hills Passion Play is produced every summer and is a pageant worth seeing and shooting . Of course , while in this vicinity you won want to miss a visit to Mount Rushmore National Memorial where on the side of a mountain are the famous sculptures of Presidents Washington , Lincoln , Jefferson and Theodore Roosevelt . In Missouri ( which we are including in our general Midwest region ) you can glance into Mark Twain birthplace at Hannibal , see the landmarks of his life and writings and visualize where Huck Finn hatched his boyish mischief . Similarly in Illinois there is Lincoln country to be seen -- his tomb and other landmarks . Minnesota , fabled land of waters , is in itself , ideal vacationland , having within its borders 10 , 000 lakes ! Itasca State Park , where the Mississippi River begins , is one of the outstanding tourist spots in Minnesota . Mementoes of the Old West recall the days of Wyatt Earp in Dodge City , Nebraska , where present-day cowboys add a colorful human interest note to your vacation shooting . Of current interest is Abilene , Kansas , the birthplace of ex-President Eisenhower . There a museum here and also Old Abilene Town , a reconstruction of the cattle boomtown of the 70 and 80 . For a resort area , Mackinack Island , Michigan , is the place to visit . It truly relives another age for the inhabitants use carriages rather than autos and old British and French forts are left intact for tourists to visit and record . Pictures of the Midwest Night scenes will add an exciting touch to your vacation travelogue and what better place to take them then along Chicago Lake Shore Drive ? Just after sunset is a good time to record the city lights in color since you get a `` fill-in light from the sky . Another memo for sightseers : bring your camera along to museums . Photos of historic dioramas of the area you visit will add depth and background to your vacation photo story . Again , be sure your tripod is handy for those sometimes-necessary time exposures . Special events and their dates which will make interesting shooting in the Midwest area , include the following : A re-enactment of the Battle of Lexington , May 18th at Lexington , Missouri ; he world-renowned 500-mile auto race at Indianapolis , Indiana , plus a festival from May 27-30 ; ` Song Of Hiawatha , in Elgin , Illinois , from June 20 to 24th . Michigan offers the lovely Tulip Festival in Holland , Michigan , May 12-14 ; he USGA Open in Birmingham from June 15-17 ; nd the International Freedom Festival in Detroit , June 29 thru July 4 . For early vacationers there the fun-filled Fishing Derby in Hot Springs , Arkansas , April 19-23 , and the Arkansas Band Festival in Hot Springs , April 20-22 . The West A western vacation is practically synonymous with a visit to at least one of the magnificent national parks in this area . A tour of several of them is possible in a two-week vacation while a stay at just one of these natural beauty spots can be of equal reward . In California is located one of the most popular of the national parks -- Yosemite . Among its most spectacular features are its falls , the highest being Upper Yosemite which drops 2 , 425 feet . The Sequoia Grove presents another unique aspect of Yosemite , for these ancient giant trees are a sight never to be forgotten . In the Utah area are Zion National Park and Bryce Canyon National Park . Fantastic colors are to be seen in the fanciful formations of eroded rock which loom out of the semiarid country in both parks . Colorado Grand Canyon , probably the most famous landmark of the United States , can be the highpoint of your Western vacation . 
Built upon seven hills , Istanbul , like Rome , is one of the most ancient cities in the world , filled with splendor and contrast . It is an exotic place , so different from the ordinary that the casual tourist is likely to see at first only the contrast and the ugliness of narrow streets lined with haphazard houses . At the moment , many of these are being pulled down . Whole blocks are disappearing and more are scheduled to vanish to make room for wide boulevards that will show off its treasures to better advantage -- the great domes and graceful spires of its mosques , the panorama of the Bosphorus and the Golden Horn . Even when they are finished , however , the contrast will remain , for Istanbul is the only city in the world that is built upon two continents . For almost 3 , 000 years Europe and Asia have rubbed shoulders in its streets . Founded in the Ninth Century B . C . it was called Byzantium 200 years later when Byzas , ruler of the Megarians , expanded the settlement and named it after himself . About a thousand years after that , when the Roman Empire was divided , it became capital of the Eastern section . On May 11 , 330 , A . D . , , its name was changed again , this time to Constantinople after its emperor , Constantine . In 1453 when the last vestige of ancient Roman power fell to the Turks , the city officially shifted religions -- although the Patriarch , or Pope , of the Orthodox Church continued to live there , and still does -- and became the capital of the Ottoman Empire . When that was broken up after the First World War , its name was changed once more . Rich in Christian and Moslem art , Istanbul is today a fascinating museum of East and West that recently became a seaside resort as well with the development of new beaches on the Bosphorus and the Sea of Marmara only a short distance from the center of town . Easy to get to , and becoming more popular every year , it is only fourteen hours from New York by Pan American World Airways jet , four hours from Rome . Start of tour Most of the sights lie in the old section across the Golden Horn from the modern hotels . I started my tour of them at the Turkish Government Tourist Office , next to Pan American office on the left as you enter the driveway that leads to the Hilton Hotel . From there I turned left along Cumhuriyet Cadesi past more hotels and a park on the left , Republic Gardens , and came in a few moments to Taksim Square , one of the hubs of the city , with the Monument of the Republic , erected in 1928 , in its center . Directly across from the Gardens I found a bus stop sign for T 4 and rode it down to the Bosphorus , with the sports center on my left just before I reached the water and the entrance to Dolmabahce Palace immediately after that . There the bus turned right along the Bosphorus , past ocean liners at anchor , to Galata Bridge over the entrance to the Golden Horn , a brown sweep of water that empties into the Bosphorus . Across the bridge on the left I saw St . Sophia with its sturdy brown minarets and to the right of them the slenderer spires of the Blue Mosque . On the other side of the Golden Horn I rode through Eminonu Square , with Yeni Cami , or the New Mosque , which dates from the Seventeenth Century , just across from the entrance to the bridge . Passing it , the bus climbed a hill , with the covered spice bazaar on the right and Pandelli , a famous and excellent restaurant , above it . At the top of the hill the buildings on the left gave way to a park . I got off there , crossed the street , walked ahead with St . Sophia on my left , the Blue Mosque on my right , and in a moment came to the entrance of St . Sophia . Erected on the site of pagan temples and three previous St . Sophias , the first of which was begun by Constantine , this fourth church was started by Justinian in 532 and completed twenty years later . On his first trip to the finished structure he boasted that he had built a temple grander than Solomon in Jerusalem . A few years later the dome fell in . Nevertheless , it remained one of the most splendid churches of the Eastern Empire , where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned . After the Turks conquered the city in 1453 they converted it to a mosque , adding the stubby minarets . In the second half of the Sixteenth Century , Sinan , the great architect who is the Michelangelo of the East , designed the massive buttresses that now help support the dome . With the birth of the Turkish Republic after the First World War , St . Sophia became a museum , and the ancient mosaics , which were plastered over by the Moslems , whose religion forbids pictures in holy places , have been restored . Inside over the first door I saw one of these , which shows Constantine offering the city to the Virgin Mary and Justinian offering the temple . On the columns around the immense dome are round plaques with Arabic writing . The eight green columns , I learned , came from the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus , the others , red , from the Temple of the Sun at Heliopolis . Beneath the dome I saw the spot where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned , a bit of floor protected now by a wooden fence . Behind this is a minber or Moslem pulpit and near it a raised platform with golden grillwork , where the emperors and , after them , the sultans , sat . Directly opposite is the emperor door , through which they entered the building . Outside St . Sophia I walked through the flower garden in front of it , with the Blue Mosque ahead on my left . Across the street on my right I saw the Hippodrome , now a park . It was laid out in 196 for chariot races and other public games . Statues and other monuments that stood there were stolen , mostly by the waves of Crusaders . At the beginning of the Hippodrome I saw the Kaiser Fountain , an ugly octagonal building with a glass dome , built in 1895 by the German Emperor , and on my left , directly across from it , the tomb of Sultan Ahmet , who constructed the Blue Mosque , more properly known by his name . Just before coming to the mosque entrance I crossed the street , entered the Hippodrome , and walked ahead to the Obelisk of Theodosius , originally erected in Heliopolis in Egypt about 1 , 600 B . C . by Thutmose , who also built those now in New York , London and Rome at the Lateran . This one was set up here in 390 A . D . on a pedestal , the faces of which are carved with statues of the emperor and his family watching games in the Hippodrome , done so realistically that the obelisk itself is included in them . Beyond it I noted a small green column , about twelve feet below the present ground level -- the Serpentine Column , three entwined serpents , which once stood at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi , Greece . Near the end of the Hippodrome I came upon the Built Column , a truncated obelisk of blocks , all that remains of a monument that once rivalled the Colossus of Rhodes . Magnificent Mosque Retracing my steps to the Mosque of Sultan Ahmet , only one with six minarets , I entered the courtyard , with a gallery supported by pointed arches running around it and a fountain in the middle . One of the most beautiful buildings in Istanbul , it was constructed in the early years of the Seventeenth Century , with a huge central dome , two half domes that seem to cascade down from it , and smaller full domes around the gallery . The round minarets , tall and graceful , rise from rectangular bases and have three platforms from which the muezzin can chant his call to prayer . Inside , the walls are covered with blue and white tile , the floor with red and cream carpets . Back at the Kaiser Fountain , I walked left to the streetcar stop and rode up the hill -- any car will do -- past the Column of Constantine , also known as the Burnt Column , at the top on my right . It stands in the middle of what was once the Forum of Constantine , who brought it from Rome . I stayed on the car for a few minutes until , turning right , it entered a huge square , Bayezit , with the Bayezit Mosque on the right and the gate to the university just beyond it . There I got off , crossed the square , and on the side directly opposite the gate found a good restaurant , hard to come by in this part of the city . Called the Marmara Gazinosu , it is on the third floor , with signs pointing the way there , and has a terrace overlooking the Sea of Marmara . After lunch , in the arcade on my left just before reaching the street I found a pastry shop that sells some of the best baklava -- a sweet , flaky cake -- in Istanbul . It a great favorite of the university students , and I joined them there for dessert . Taking the streetcar back to Kaiser Fountain , I walked ahead , then left down the street opposite St . Sophia and just beyond the corner came to a small , one-story building with a red-tile roof , which is the entrance to the Sunken Palace . Actually an underground cistern , its roof supported by rows and rows of pillars , it was built by Justinian in the Sixth Century to supply the palace with water . There is still water in it . I found it fairly depressing and emerged almost immediately . Outside I walked past the entrance to St . Sophia , turned left at the end of it , and continued toward a gate in the wall ahead . Just before reaching it I came to a grey and brown stone building that looks somewhat like an Oriental pagoda , with Arabic lettering in gold and colored tile decorations -- the Fountain of Sultan Ahmet . Going through the Imperial Gate in the wall , I entered the grounds of Topkapi Palace , home of the Sultans and nerve center of the vast Ottoman Empire , and walked along a road toward another gate in the distance , past the Church of St . Irene , completed by Constantine in 330 A . D . on my left , and then , just outside the second gate , I saw a spring with a tap in the wall on my right -- the Executioner Spring , where he washed his hands and his sword after beheading his victims . Passing through the gate , with towers on either side once used as prisons , I entered a huge square surrounded by buildings , and on the wall to my right found a general plan of the grounds , with explanations in English for each building . There are a good many of them . At one time about 10 , 000 people lived there . Following arrowed signs , I veered right toward the former kitchens , complete with chimneys , which now house one of the world greatest collections of Chinese porcelain and a fabulous array of silver dinner services . Next to it is a copper section , with cooking utensils and a figure of the chief cook in an elaborate , floor-length robe . In the court once more , I went right toward the Reception House , a long one-story building with a deep portico . Going through a door into another small court , I had the Throne Room directly in front . I walked to the right around it to buildings containing illuminated manuscripts and came to the Treasury , which houses such things as coffee cups covered with diamonds , jewelled swords , rifles glittering with diamonds and huge divan-like thrones as large as small beds , on which the sultans sat cross-legged . They are made of gold and covered with emeralds , pearls and other jewels . Taking the path behind the Throne Room to the building directly beyond it , the Portrait Gallery , I went right at the end of it , through a garden to a small building at the back -- a sitting room furnished with low blue divans , its floor covered with carpets , its ceiling painted with gold squares and floral designs . 
( Do start fires one or two hours ahead of time to obtain a lasting bed of glowing coals . Keep ashes from one barbecue to the next to sprinkle over coals if they are too hot , and to stop flames that arise from melting grease . Do line barbecue fire bowl with heavy foil to reflect heat . Don forget to buy a plastic pastry brush for basting with sauces . Clean it meticulously in boiling water and detergent , rinse thoroughly . Do build a wall of glowing coals six to eight inches in front of meat that is barbecued on an electric spit . Make use of the back of the barbecue or of the hood for heating vegetables , sauces and such . Don fail to shorten cooking time by the use of aluminum foil cut slightly larger than the surface of steaks and chops . Sear on both sides then cover meat loosely with heat reflecting foil for juiciest results . Do avoid puncturing or cutting into meats to test them . If doubtful about a steak , boldly cut it in half . If necessary to replace both halves on grill , sear cuts and allot extra time . For roasts , insert meat thermometer diagonally so it does not rest on bone . Also make sure thermometer does not touch the revolving spit or hit the coals . Don practice a new recipe on guests . Have a test-run on the family first , to be sure timing and seasoning are right . Do buy meat the day or the day before you intend to cook it . Keep it no longer than 36 hours before cooking , and keep it in the coldest ( but non-freezing ) compartment of the refrigerator . Don plan meals that are too complicated . Limit yourself to good meat and drink , with bread , salad , corn or potatoes as accessories . Keep the desserts simple ; ruit does nicely . Do whatever kitchen work , such as fixing a salad , preparing garlic bread , or making a marinade sauce , ahead of time . When you start the outdoor performance , you can stay outdoors without a dozen running trips into the kitchen . ( This goes for getting a drink tray ready , and for having a big cooler full of ice on hand long before the party begins . ) Don think you have to start with the most expensive equipment in the world . The simplest grill ( pan type ) or inexpensive hibachi can make you a chef . You need tongs to handle meat ; ong forks for turning potatoes and corn ; eavy foil on hand at all times . And lots of hot pads ! Do keep the grill high enough above the fire so that when fat from meat drips down and flares up , flames cannot reach the meat . Don forget to have a supply of Melamine plates , bowls , cups , saucers , and platters for outdoor use . Made of the world toughest unbreakable plastic , Melamine dinnerware comes in almost 400 different patterns and dozens of colors . There is even one set that has `` barbecue written on it . Do without fancy tablecloths . It cheaper to buy Wall-Tex and cover your outdoor table . Or buy half a dozen lengths of oilcloth and change patterns for different kinds of barbecues . Oilcloth only costs about 79-cents a yard for the very best . Tougher than plastic , it wears well . Don forget -- when you take to the hills or the beach -- that your cooler , which you might have used for wine- or beer-cooling on your terrace or back yard , is indispensable for carrying liquid refreshments . There are many varieties of coolers and they serve many purposes . With them , you can carry steaks and hamburgers at refrigerator temperatures , and also get your frozen food for stews and chowders , to the marina or picnic , in A-1 condition . Do use paper napkins ; ots of them . Except when you prepare `` do it yourself shish kebob or a lobster roast . Then you l want terry cloth towels for mopping up . Don think barbecue cooking is just sometimes , or seasonal . It year-round , and everywhere . In the winter , hibachi in the kitchen or grill over the logs of the fireplace . Even use your portable electric or gas grill in the winter , inside . Summertime supper , outside , is a natural . You l find , once your technique is perfected , that you can cook on a boat with a simple Bernz-O-Matic . Do buy all-purpose mugs or cups . Get copper or earthenware mugs that keep beer chilled or soup hot . Be sure to get a few more than you need . You will discover you keep the sauce for basting meat in one , use six for drinks , serve soup or coffee in another half-dozen -- and need one more to mix the salad dressing . Don forget the joys of a meal on the road . If you travel over the vast U . S . A . you will , no doubt , discover that feeding is an expensive business . Decide in the beginning to put your barbecue equipment to work . You can take it with you . A picnic bag , a grill , a cooler for soft drinks and beer , and for frozen convenience foods . Eat in a restaurant or motel mornings and evenings ; r just evenings . Turn off at any one of the marked picnic areas ( gasoline companies have touring service bureaus that issue booklets on national parks to tell you where you have barbecue facilities ) and -- with soft drinks cooled from morning loading up , hamburger , buns , an array of relishes , and fresh fruit -- your lunch is 75% cheaper than at a restaurant , and 100% more fun . You need a little stove , a coffee pot and a stew pot ; aybe a skillet , a basket of essentials like salt , pepper , plates , forks , knives and a can opener . As you pull out of your motel or national park home-for-the-night , visit a market and buy just what you need for the next meal . For 25-cents load up the cooler with ice and keep cool pop in the car . Simple meat dishes spice is a fact of life in the U . S . A . . You only have to think of franks and sausages to know what I mean . Go a step further and list all the wonderful barbecue basics -- cervelat , salami , Vienna sausages , mettwurst , bratwurst , bockwurst , knackwurst , Bologna , pepperoni , blutwurst -- and you have a long list of easy specialties . Threaded on a skewer with new boiled potatoes , a bit of green pepper , a fresh white mushroom -- any one of these spiced meats makes a man a cook , and a meal a feast . Sure , for the most of us , a frankfurter is the favorite . A story goes that a certain Herr Feuchtwanger of St . Louis , around 1883 served his sausages ( grilled ) and mustard to his fancy customers . So that his customers should not soil their hands , Feuchtwanger issued white gloves . Discovery that the gloves frequently left with the customers made the wise peddler of spiced sausage-meat come upon a compromise . He had a bakery make buns sized to fit his franks . Years later , franks-in-buns were accepted as the `` first to go at the New York Polo Grounds . The nation number one picnic treat is the skinless frankfurter -- toasted over a bonfire on the beach or , more sedately , charcoal broiled on a portable grill . Either way it hard to beat in flavor as well as ease of preparation . To make the picnic frank come close to perfection , remember these tips : -- Score each frankfurter in four or five places about a third of the way through . This permits the juices to permeate the meat during cooking . -- Relishes are as vital to the success of the frank as are buns . Bring along the conventional ones -- catsup , pickle relish , mustard , mayonnaise -- plus a few extras , such as tangy barbecue sauce , chive cream cheese , or horse-radish for the brave ones in the crowd . -- Using a portable grill permits you to toast the buns , too . Watch closely while browning them , as it doesn take long . -- An unusual flavor can be achieved by marinating the franks in French dressing or a mixture of honey , lemon juice and brown sugar prior to the picnic . Broil or toast as usual . Contrary to popular opinion , `` a la mode doesn mean `` with ice cream -- it just means , in the latest style . Here are a couple of the latest , highly styled ways to fix skinless franks in your own back yard ! You l have the neighbor eyes popping as well as their mouths watering ! Jiffy barbecues 1 cup chili sauce 1 cup water 1 tablespoon barbecue sauce 2 teaspoons prepared mustard 1 pound chipped , spiced ham 6 sandwich buns , heated . Combine first 4 ingredients in saucepan ; eat thoroughly . Add ham ; eat . Serve on buns . Makes 6 barbecues . Hot hibachi franks You l never hear `` sayonara , the Japanese word for goodbye , from your guests when you give a hibachi party . The fun of toasting their own sausages over the small Oriental charcoal burners and dipping them in tasty sauces will keep your group busy -- try it and see ! Canned cocktail frankfurters sweet-sour sauce 1 large onion , chopped fine 2 tablespoons salad oil 1 8-oz . can crushed pineapple and 1 cup of the juice 1 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons vinegar 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce pineapple chunks . Mustard cream 2 tablespoons dry mustard Water 1 cup heavy cream , whipped Salt Paprika . Spear canned cocktail franks with picks . Also spear pineapple chunks and place in separate bowl . Make sauces ahead . Sweet-sour sauce can be kept warm over a second hibachi or chafing dish while charcoal in broiler is reaching glowing coal stage . Mustard cream , used as alternate dip for franks and pineapple tidbits , tastes best when served at room temperature . For sweet-sour sauce , cook onion in oil until soft . Add remaining ingredients and bring to a boil . Simmer about 10 minutes , and keep warm for serving . To prepare mustard cream , blend mustard with enough water to make a thin paste . Fold into whipped cream and add a dash of salt and sprinkling of paprika . Trim-your-own-franks A back-yard picnic with grilled frankfurters and a selection of frankfurter trimmings is a fine way to entertain guests this summer . Be sure to have plenty of frankfurters and buns on hand . Some tasty frank toppings are chili con carne , Coney Island sauce and savory sauerkraut . Serve the chili and kraut hot with the franks . Here are suggestions for the frankfurter trimmings : 1 . Chili con carne : use canned chili con carne . 2 . Coney Island sauce : finely chop several onions and add enough catsup to moisten well ; dd prepared mustard to suit taste . 3 . Savory sauerkraut : add several tablespoons of brown sugar to a can of sauerkraut . Add a few caraway seeds , too , if you like . Barbecued frankfurters 1 cup minced celery 1 cup minced onion 1 cup tomato ketchup 1 cup water 1 cup vinegar 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 1 teaspoon salt 8 frankfurters . Combine first 9 ingredients in skillet . Simmer 15 minutes . Prick frankfurters with fork ; lace in sauce . Cover ; immer 15 minutes , stirring occasionally , until sauce is of desired consistency . Serve in frankfurter buns or as a meat dish . Makes 8 sandwiches or 4 servings . Pretend ham Make criss-cross gashes on one side of skinless frankfurters . Stick 4 or 5 cloves in each frank , ham fashion . Make a paste of brown sugar and mustard and spread lightly over scored surface . If desired , sprinkle with 1 teaspoon drained crushed pineapple . Place on rectangle of foil and pinch edges together tightly . Roast on grill over coals 15-20 minutes . Frankfurter twists Blend 2 cups biscuit mix with 2 cup milk to make a soft dough . Knead on lightly floured board and roll out to form a Af-inch rectangle . Spread dough with a mixture of 3 tablespoons chili sauce , 1 teaspoon horse-radish and 2 teaspoons mustard . Cut dough carefully into 12 strips , about 3 inch by a foot long . Twist one strip diagonally around each skinless frankfurter , pinching dough at ends to seal it . Brush frankfurter twists with about 1 cup melted butter and toast slowly over glowing coals until dough is golden brown . Serves 12 . Hamburger patties with nuts 1 pound ground beef 2 teaspoons grated onion Dash of pepper 1 teaspoon salt 1 cup chopped walnuts 1 cup ice cold bourbon . Combine ingredients ; orm into patties and barbecue 5 minutes on each side . 
Note : Directions are written for those who have had previous experience in making pottery . Instructions for preparing clay , drying , glazing and firing are not given . Equipment : Basic pottery studio equipment . Wooden butter molds and cookie presses . Materials : Ceramic modeling clay : red , white or buff . Stoneware clay for tiles . Glazes , one-stroke ceramic colors , stains , cones as indicated in the individual instructions . General directions : Use well-wedged clay , free of air bubbles and pliable enough to bend without cracking . Clean wooden molds and presses thoroughly ; hey must be free of oil , wax and dust . Pressing designs : The size of wooden mold will determine the amount of clay needed . Roll clay to thickness indicated in individual instructions . Whenever possible , use the wooden mold as a pattern for cutting clay . When mold has more than one design cavity , make individual paper patterns . Place mold or paper pattern on rolled clay and cut clay by holding knife in vertical position ( cut more pieces than required for project to make allowance for defects ; xperiment with defects for decoration techniques of glazes and colors ) . Place the cut clay piece loosely over the carved cavity design side of wooden mold . To obtain clear impression of mold , press clay gently but firmly into mold cavity , starting at center and working to outer edges . Trim excess clay away from outer edges . Check thickness of clay and build up thin areas by moistening surface with a little water and adding small pieces of clay . Be sure to press the additional clay firmly into place without locking in air bubbles . Allow project to stand for about five minutes ( if wooden press mold is a good antique , do not leave clay in too long as the dampness may cause mold to crack ) . To release clay from mold , place hands in a cupped position around project ; ently lift the edge on far side , then continue to release edge completely around mold . Slight tapping on the underside of mold will help release the clay , but too much agitation will cause the clay to become soft and will interfere with removal of clay from mold . Place a piece of plaster wall board or plaster bat on clay and reverse bat , clay and mold in one action . This will prevent the clay from twisting or bending , causing warping when fired . Place project on table and carefully lift the mold off . Study surface of clay for defects or desired corrections . If clay is slightly out of shape , square straight sides with guide sticks or rulers pressed against opposite sides , or smooth round pieces with damp fingers . If the background of design is too smooth , or you wish to create a wood-grained effect , it may be added at this time with a dull tool such as the handle of a fine paintbrush . Make slight , smooth grooves rather than cuts for the texture ( cuts could cause air pockets under the glaze creating pinholes or craters in the glaze during firing ) . Leave the clay on plaster board to dry slowly , covered lightly with a loose piece of plastic or cloth to prevent warping . Rectangular tiles ( opposite page , right top ) : Stoneware clay was used . Clay was rolled to 1 thickness . Back of clay scored or roughened for proper gripping surface . No bisque firing . Glazed with two coats of Creek-Turn white stoneware glaze ( no glaze on sides or bottom ) . Decorated on unfired glaze with one coat of one-stroke ceramic colors ; aised details of designs were colored in shades of yellow-green , blue-green , brown and pink . Tiles were fired once to cone 05 . Round plaque ( opposite page , bottom ) : White clay was used , rolled to 1 thickness . Bisque fired to cone 05 . Stained with Jacquelyn ceramic unfired stain , polished , following manufacturer directions . Opaque cantaloupe and transparent wood brown were used . No further firing . Paperweight ( opposite page , top left ) : Red clay was used , rolled 1 thick . Mold was used as pattern and clay cut by holding knife at about 45-degree angle , to form an undercut , making base smaller than the pattern top . While clay is still pressed in mold , press three equally spaced holes 1 deep , using pencil eraser , in bottom of clay to allow for proper drying and firing . Paperweight may be personalized on back while clay is leather hard . Bisque fired to cone 05 . Unglazed . Jars with lids ( opposite page , top left ) : Remove wooden design head from bowl of butter mold . Fill small hole in bowl with clay . Make paper patterns for sections of jar and lid ( see Fig . 1 , opposite page ) . Measurements for rectangular pattern piece A are obtained by measuring inside circumference and depth of butter mold bowl . Pattern for circular base piece B is diameter of Aj . Use wooden design head of mold for pattern C ; attern D for lid fits over top diameter of Aj . Pattern for inner lid piece E fits inside Aj . Jars are assembled in bowl of butter mold . Use white or buff clay , rolled to 3 thickness . Place patterns on rolled clay and cut around them with knife in vertical position . Place clay pieces on wall board . To assemble jar , put paper pattern B for base in bottom of mold and clay disk B on top . Line sides of mold with paper pattern Aj . Bevel and score ends of clay piece A so that they overlap about 1 and make even thickness . Place clay piece A inside ; se slip to join overlapped ends together . Join B to bottom of A , scoring and reinforcing with clay coil . Trim excess clay from around lip of mold and set aside while assembling lid . To assemble lid , press clay piece C in cavity of wooden design head . Press clay into mold as instructed in General Directions . Score plain side of C and leave in mold . Score one side of disk D , join to C ; core other side of D and one side of disk E and join as before . While assembled lid is still on design head , gently but firmly press it on plaster board . If design head has a deep cavity , clay lid will be quite thick at this point ; ress eraser of pencil gently 1 deep into deep clay to allow vent for proper drying and firing . Check fit of lid on jar ; f inner lid is too big , trim to fit , allowing room for thickness of glaze . Remove lid from head of mold . Remove jar from mold . Place jar on plaster board with lid in place to dry slowly . Bisque fire to cone 08 with lid on jar . For an antique effect on jars , brush Creek-Turn brown toner on bisque ware and sponge it off . Glaze with two coats of clear or transparent matt glaze . The large jar was brushed with Creek-Turn green toner and sponged off . Glaze with two coats of matt glazes in turquoise with touches of blossom pink on lid . When dry they were fired to cone 06-05 . Little folks set : ( Made from modern wooden molds Af . ) Roll white clay to 3 thickness . Salt and pepper : Use mold to cut four side pieces . For top and bottom pieces , use short end of mold as measurement guide . Press the side pieces of clay into cavity of mold . Trim excess clay from rim of mold . Cut beveled edge on the long sides of clay at a 45-degree angle to miter corners . Score beveled edges and remove pieces from mold ; lace design-side up on plaster board . Make all four sides . Cut clay top and base pieces ; lace on plaster board . Allow all pieces to become leather hard before constructing shaker . To assemble : Construct sides , bottom and top as for box , using slip on scored edges and coils of clay to reinforce seams . Join the four sides together first , then add the base ; dd top last . Use water on finger to smooth seams and edges . Turn shaker upside down . Recess base slightly to allow room for stopper . Cut hole in base for cork stopper . Add holes in top , forming `` S for salt and `` P for pepper . Set aside to dry thoroughly . Sugar and creamer : Cut a strip of clay for sides long enough and wide enough for three impressions of mold design . Press clay into cavity of one mold three times ; evel overlapping ends for splice joint , score beveled edges . Form clay strip into a cylinder ; se slip to join scored ends . Place cylinder on a disk of clay slightly larger than cylinder . Score bottom edge of cylinder and join to disk with slip . Trim away excess clay ; einforce seam with a coil of clay . This will form the sugar bowl . Make creamer the same . Handle for creamer is a strip of clay 1 wide and 3-1 long . To add handle , place a wooden dowel against the inside wall of creamer . Score outside of container where handle ends will be joined . Bend handle ; ress scored handle ends firmly in place using dowel to reinforce container while pressing ; se slip to join . To form spout , between two designs , dampen area slightly and gently push clay outward . Make lid for sugar bowl the same as jar lids , omitting design disk . Cut a notch in lid for spoon handle if desired . Set aside to dry with lid on sugar bowl . Vases : Make same as salt and pepper shakers , leaving off top pieces . Vases may be made into candles by filling with melted wax and a wick . Napkin holder : Cut a piece of clay for base and two for sides each about Af ( long enough for three impressions of mold ) . Press the two sides into cavity of one mold three times . Put cut pieces on plaster board to dry to firm leather-hard state . Score side edges of base ; oin sides and base with slip and reinforce with coil . A cardboard pattern cut to fit inside holder will help to prevent warping . Place pattern inside holder ; se three strips of clay to hold in place ( see Fig . 2 , page 71 ) . Do not use wood as it will not shrink with the clay and would cause breakage . Let all projects dry slowly for several days . Clean greenware . Bisque fire to cone 08 . Inside of pieces was glazed with three coats of Creek-Turn bottle green antique glaze . Outside was finished with Creek-Turn brown toner brushed on and sponged off to give antique finish . Fired to cone 06-05 . Changing colors to change from one color yarn to another : When changing from one color to another , whether working on right or wrong side , pick up the new strand from underneath dropped strand . Photograph shows the wrong side of work with light strand being picked up under dark strand in position to be purled . To measure work : Spread article on flat surface to required width before measuring length at center . Measuring armhole to measure armhole : Mark row on which first stitches have been bound off for armhole by drawing a contrasting colored thread through it . Place work on a flat surface and smooth out . Measure straight up from marked row . See illustration . To insert markers : When directions read `` sl a marker on needle , put a small safety pin , paper clip , or commercial ring marker on needle . In working , always slip marker from one needle to another . To mark a row or stitch , tie contrasting thread around end of row or stitch to be marked . Backstitching seam to sew seams with backstitch : Most seams are sewn with backstitch , especially on curved , slanted or loose edges . Pin right sides of pieces together , keeping edges even and matching rows or patterns . Thread matching yarn in tapestry needle . Run end of yarn through several stitches along edge to secure ; ackstitch pieces together close to edge . Do not draw yarn too tight . See illustration . To sew in sleeves : Place sleeve seam at center underarm and center of sleeve cap at shoulder seam . Ease in any extra fullness evenly around . Backstitch seam . Weaving seam to weave seams together : Straight vertical edges , such as those at the back seam of a sock , can be woven together invisibly . Thread matching yarn in tapestry needle . Hold edges together , right side up . 
Hotei is 23 feet long with an 8-1 beam and every inch a family boat . Menfolk can ride in the forward cockpit where the helmsman has a clear view . Youngsters can sleep or amuse themselves safely in the large cabin which has 5-foot 11-inch headroom , bunks for three , galley and marine toilet . The gals can sun themselves in the roomy aft cockpit . All are well distributed , not crowded together near the stern . And with passenger weight shifted forward , Hotei levels off for speed under power of a Merc 800 . The 80-hp motor drives her at 25 mph with six aboard ! With only two aboard , Hotei does better than 27 mph -- and she gives a comfortable ride at this speed even in a three-foot chop . She also banks into a turn like a fine runabout -- not digging in on the outside to throw passengers all over the boat like many a small cabin cruiser . Nor is she a wet boat . We e been out in five-foot waves and stayed dry . A lot of thought went into storage space construction . There a large compartment in the forward cockpit for charts and other items . The cabin has several shelves for small items and storage under the bunks for water skiis , life jackets , etc . . The aft cockpit has a Af storage bin over six feet long that doubles as a seat . On each side of the motor well there storage for battery , bumpers , line and spare props with six-gallon gas tanks below . The well itself is designed to take two Merc 800 or 500 if you wish and there room for a 25-gallon long-cruise gas tank below it . Needless to say , you can build Hotei in a couple of weeks . Our building time was slightly over 400 hours -- but the total cost for the hull with Fiberglas bottom , sink , head and hardware was under $800 . A comparable manufactured boat would cost close to $3 , 000 . Consider what you have to earn to be able to spend the $3 , 000 and your building time is well worth it . A Gator trailer , Model 565 , is used to transport the boat to the waterways . This piece of equipment costs a little over $600 but it will save you that in mooring and hauling fees in a few years . All framing in Hotei is one-inch mahogany which , in the dressed state you buy it , is about the 13 thickness specified in the drawings . Therefore , the lumber is bought in planks and ripped to size for battens , etc . , on a table saw . Besides flathead bronze screws , silicon bronze Stronghold nails ( made by Independent Nail & Packing Co . , Bridgewater , Mass . ) are used extensively in assembly and Weldwood resorcinol glue is used in all the joints . Construction follows a thorough study of the drawings . Start by laying out the six frames and the transom on a level floor . Draw each outline in a different-color chalk , one on top of the other . In this way you will be able to detect any obvious mistakes . The transom frame is made first with the joints lapped , glued and fastened with one-inch , No . 12 Stronghold nails . After notching it for the keelson , chines and battens , the half-inch plywood transom is secured to it with glue and the same type nails . All frames are butted at the joints and 3 plywood gussets are glued and nailed on each side of each joint , again using the one-inch , No . 12 nails . The frames are notched only for the keelson and the chines . If notched for the battens , they would require more work , be weakened and limber holes would have to be bored so that bilge water could flow through . Nowhere in the boat do the frames come in contact with the plywood planking . The jig is erected after the frames and transom are complete . This is an important step because any misalignment would cause progressively worse misalignment in the hull as you advance in construction . Be sure all members are parallel , vertical and level as required . After the frames and transom are set up on the jig and temporarily braced , a piece of three-inch-wide mahogany ( only widths will be given since the 13 thickness is used throughout ) is butted between frames one and two below the line of the keelson . The frames are glued and screwed to this piece . The joints are also reinforced on each side with small blocks set in resin-saturated Fiberglas cloth and nailed . It is over this piece that the laminated stem and keelson are spliced . The keelson , made of two three-inch widths , is next installed . The first piece is glued and screwed to the frames and transom and the piece butted between frames one and two . The second piece is in turn glued and screwed to the first . Note , however , that it is six inches shorter at the forward end . One-inch , No . 10 screws are used in both cases . A stem jig is next cut to the proper shape and temporarily fastened to frame one . The stem is laminated from four pieces . Take two three-inch-wide pieces and rip them down the center of the thickness to make the four . Then spread a generous amount of glue on the four pieces and bend them into place on the jig . The first two pieces butt against the inner member of the keelson and are glued and screwed to the brace between the first two frames . The second two pieces lap over the inner member of the keelson and butt against the outer member . They e glued and screwed to the inner member of the keelson . A number of C clamps hold the pieces together on the jig until the glue sets . All bottom battens are two inches wide . The side ones are a half-inch narrower . The battens are carefully fastened in place after some necessary fairing on all frames . Glue and 1-1 , No . 10 screws are used . Placement is important because the rear seat , bunks and front jump seats rest on or are fastened to many of the side battens . With the exception of two battens , all run to the stem where they are glued and screwed after careful beveling . The chines go in the same way except that they are made of two pieces of two-inch wood for strength and easier bending . Fairing is always a tedious job but the work can be cut down considerably with a Skill planer and a simple jig . I clamped a 30-inch piece of aluminum to the base of the planer with a pair of Sure Grips . The aluminum , flush against the battens , acted as a fairing stick and enabled me to plane the chines and keelson to the proper bevels easily . If you don own a planer and don want to buy one , it well worth renting . The planking is five-ply , 3 Weldwood Royal Marine plywood . This can be obtained in 42-inch widths 24 feet long . The 42-inch width leaves very little waste . Four pieces are used . Plank the sides first , using glue and one-inch , No . 12 Stronghold nails at all battens , the stem and the transom . Another person inside with a weight against each batten will help in the fastening . The best procedure is to have a few friends hold the planking in place while you mark it off . Then trim the excess . I used a Homemaster Routo-Jig made by Porter Cable for this job . It good for cutting all the planking because it cuts with a bit-like blade at high rpm and does not chatter the plywood like a saber saw . When cut , the planking is clamped in place for a final and careful trimming . Then it is marked on the inside where it comes in contact with the transom , frames , keelson and all the battens . It may then be pre-drilled for the fastenings . The next step is to remove it and spread glue where it has been marked at the contact points . Then it is replaced and fastened . The bottom planking is applied in the same manner . After planking , the bottom gets a layer of Fiberglas . The spray rails are first glued on the outside and fastened from the inside with screws . Then the chines are rounded off and the bottom is rough-sanded in preparation . Since the sides are also covered up to the spray rails , they are also rough-sanded in that area . The cloth is laid on one half of the bottom at a time . A 50-inch width is used on each side and it laps the keel line by about three inches . Lay the cloth in place and trim it to size . Then remove it and give the whole bottom a coat of resin . When the resin has hardened , mix up another batch with a pigment added if you wish . I used bright red , mixing the pigment in thoroughly before adding the hardener . Using a cheap brush , coat one side of the bottom with the resin and then apply the cloth . When the cloth is smooth , apply another coat of resin , spreading it with a paint roller . Be sure it is well saturated and then allow it to harden . When the whole bottom has hardened , use a disk sander to feather the edges of the cloth at the keel line and near the spray rail . Then lay a three-inch-wide strip of cloth along the keel line from the transom to the point of the stem . Before the resin has hardened , screw a one-inch mahogany keel strip along the centerline . This protects the bottom in beaching . Fiberglas materials are available from Glass Plastic Supply Co . , 1605 W . Elizabeth Ave . , Linden , N . J . . They will also supply literature on application . The hull is now turned over ( with the help of about seven friends ) and placed in a level , well-braced position . I set it on the Gator trailer . I laid three layers of glass cloth on the inside of the stem , also installing a bow eye at this time . For added strength , I also fastened a small block on each side of every frame and batten joint . Again , these blocks were set in resin-saturated glass cloth and nailed . After trimming off the excess on the frames and transom which was used to fasten them to the jig at a working height , the top of the side planking is installed . This is made up of scraps left over from the sides and bottom . These flaring parts really help to keep the boat dry . When they e on , the top edges are planed even with the sheer batten . The sides of the motor well run from the bottom battens to the top and from frame six to the transom , forming a real strong transom brace . Note another piece of wood six inches wide is fastened to the transom between these pieces . The decking is quarter-inch mahogany marine plywood . All the flooring and the storage bin is half-inch exterior fir plywood . Most floor battens are glued and screwed to the flooring . The exception is where the flooring butts . These battens are glued and screwed to the frames . With all deck battens in place , the bilge is cleaned and painted up to the floor line . Use one coat of Firzite and one coat of marine paint . Bottoms of the floorboards are also painted and the flooring is then screwed in place . After the decking is on , the cabin sides are installed . They e followed by the front and rear bulkheads as illustrated . The windshield glass is shatterproof and Plexiglas is used in the cabin . Inside , bunks are framed up and installed as indicated . A head is a handy thing to have and I installed one under a removable section of the port bunk . The sink in the hinged panel above the bunk drains into the head and a five-gallon water tank is mounted on the bulkhead above the sink . For padding the seats and bunks , I used Ensolite , Type Aj . Lightweight , non-absorbent , fire resistant and dimensionally stable , it is easily bonded to the wood with contact cement . Available in Af sheets , it costs about a dollar a square foot . 
You can build this vacation cottage yourself . It is a full scale , small , but efficient house that can become a year ound retreat complete in every detail . Because of the unique design by the architect Egils Hermanovski , you can build most of it in your own home workshop in your spare time . Most of it is panelized and utilizes standard materials , and requires the use of only simple tools . On the following pages and in the following issues we take you every step of the way to your vacation cottage , from choosing the proper site to applying the final trim . In recognition of the growing trend for second homes , or vacation cottages , we have designed this one specifically with the family handyman in mind . It is a big project , not to be taken lightly . But each step has been broken down into easy stages , utilizing standard materials and simple tools , well within the capabilities of the handyman . The theory The idea behind our design is modular units , or panelization . Everything possible has been scaled to standard sizes and measurements of materials . Wall panels and structural timbers are standard as are windows and doors , making for a minimum of cutting . We have developed an ingenious method of interlocking these so that you can make the major part of your house in your own workshop , panel by panel , according to plan . Thus , when you have prepared your foundation and laid the floor , these can be trucked to the site and erected with a small crew of friends in a weekend . The roof timbers are precut and the panels standard so that the house can be completely enclosed in a matter of three or four days . Then you can do the finishing touches at your leisure . A warning Due to the fact that building codes and regulations vary so much throughout the country , the first thing to do is to find out what , if any , they are . Close to a large city they might even specify the size of the nails used ; n a remote section there might be no restrictions at all . This can usually be found out at the nearest town hall . At the same time check the electrical , plumbing , and sanitary requirements , as well as possible zoning regulations . Whether electricity and public water and sewers are available or not , check the local customs in the use of bottled or L-P gas ( we give you alternatives later on ) . Be sure that this information is reasonably official and not just an unfounded opinion . If there are any major restrictions , they usually can be obtained in printed form . Where a building permit is required , find out what you must present when applying for one . In many cases , you must file a complete set of plans with the local building inspector . These will be available at cost from our Plans Department . The site Some general things to look for in a site , if you haven already bought one , are accessibility , water drainage , and orientation . How are the roads , and how will they stand up ? Is there evidence of wash-outs on the property ; wampy areas or intermittent springs ? A visit in the early spring after a thaw will be very informative . Note where the sun rises and sets , and ask which direction the prevailing winds and storms come from . Will the view be something you can live with ? Don worry too much about rocky or sloping terrain ; e will take up alternative foundations later on . The materials With this first issue we give you a list of the materials needed to build the basic ( AjA version ) and the expandable ( AjB version ) . This will be for the shell of the house only ( roof , walls , and floor ) , and does not include the carport or balcony . This will permit you to get a rough estimate of how much the materials for the shell will cost . Bear in mind that this does not include interior panels for partitions , fancy flooring , appliances and fixtures , electrical wiring , and plumbing , all of which will be taken up in detail in later issues . The wall panels are constructed of a framework of standard Af and Af of a good grade , free from structural faults . They should be as straight as possible , as this will effect their ability to mesh properly when the walls are erected . The outside surface of the solid units shall be of an exterior grade of panel board such as plywood , plastic coated panel board , high density particle board , asbestos-cement board , or any other product locally obtainable upon recommendation of your building supply dealer . The inner panels do not have to be weatherproof , and the choice will depend on the quality of finish desired . All panel board comes in standard Af foot size . It is recommended that panels be both glued as well as nailed to the frame . The fixed window panels with louvers should have a good grade of 1 double-strength glass set in a mastic glazing compound . The louvers are constructed as shown in the detail , with a drop door for ventilation . There are standard sliding glass windows in wood or aluminum frames for those panels requiring them . The door panels are designed to accommodate standard doors which should be of exterior grade . The filler panels for the gable ends are cut from full Af sheets as shown , leaving no wastage . The battens covering the joints are of Af stock and are applied after the walls are erected . All nails should be rustproof , and aluminum is highly recommended . Note : If 1 panel board is used inside and out , or 5 one side and 3 the other , and 1 glass is used , stock lumber in Af , Af , and Af can be used in making the glass panels . Other thicknesses may necessitate ripping a special size lumber for the glass trim . In any case , there is no special milling or rabbeting required for the panels . With modern techniques of woodworking and the multitude of cutting tools , fixtures , and attachments available , the drill press has become a basic home workshop tool . The drill press consists of a vertical shaft ( spindle ) which is tapered or threaded on one end to hold a drill chuck , a tubular housing ( quill ) in which the spindle is mounted , a head in which the quill is mounted , a feed lever which moves the quill up or down , a power source , and a movable table upon which the work is placed . There is often a means of locking the quill and , on larger presses , the table can be tilted . The size of the press is usually expressed in terms of chuck capacity ( the maximum diameter tool shank it will hold ) or distance between the spindle center and the column . A press with an 11 inch capacity lets you drill to the center of a 22 inch board or circle . A new radial drill press with a 16 inch capacity has a tilting head that allows drilling to be done at any angle . The head is mounted on a horizontal arm that swivels on the supporting column to position the drill bit instead of the work . Set-up and maintenance The drill press should be leveled and , depending on whether it is a bench or floor model , bolted securely to a sturdy bench or stand or screwed to the floor with lag or expansion screws . This will reduce vibration and increase accuracy . A coat of paste wax or a rubdown with a piece of wax paper will protect the polished surface of the table ; iping with a slightly oiled cloth will discourage rusting of the column and quill . Presses not fitted with sealed spindle bearings will need a drop of oil now and then in the lubrication holes in the quill . The rest of the press should be kept clean by dusting with a clean rag or brush . Be careful to keep the drive belt free of oil and grease . Belt tension is adjusted by manipulation of two locking bolts and a movable motor mount . Keep the belt just tight enough so the pulleys won slip when pulled by hand ; xcess tension will only cause undue wear on the motor and spindle bearings . Most drill presses have a quill return spring that raises the spindle automatically when the feed lever is released and holds the quill in the raised position . The return spring tension may be adjusted to suit individual requirements by gripping the spring housing with a pair of pliers ( to prevent the spring from unwinding when it is released ) , loosening the lock nut or screw , and rotating the housing until the desired tension is achieved . Turning the housing clockwise will reduce tension , counter-clockwise will increase it . Don lose the chuck key . Some manufacturers have had the foresight to provide a socket for the chuck key ; therwise , you l have to spend a few minutes to either attach a suitable spring clip somewhere on the press head or fit the key to a length of light chain and fasten to the bottom of the motor mount so that the key is out of the way when not in use . Feeds and speeds Drill speeds are important if you want a good job . Each cutting tool will operate best at a given speed , depending on the material worked . On most drill presses , it is impossible to get the exact speed , but you can come close by adjusting the drive belt on the step-cone pulleys . You will find a chart giving the various speed ratios available with your particular drill press somewhere in the instruction booklet that came with the tool . See the table on page 34 for exact recommended speeds . Generally , the larger the tool and the harder the material , the slower the speed . Feed pressure is also of major importance . Too much pressure will force the tool beyond its cutting capacity and result in rough cuts and jammed or broken tools . Too light a feed , particularly with metal or other hard material , causes overheating of the tool and burning of the cutting edge . The best results will be obtained by matching the correct speed with a steady feed pressure that lets the tool cut easily at an even rate . Common drilling tools There are numerous types and styles of tools to drill holes . The most common are the twist drill , the solid center shaft with interchangeable cutting blades , the double spur bit , and the power wood bit . All will do a good job if sharp , but the twist drills don cut quite as smoothly as the others , since they do not have the outlining spurs that sever the fibers before actual boring starts . The adjustable fly cutter is very useful for cutting large diameter holes and can be used to cut exact-size discs by reversing the cutter blade . Since fly cutters are one sided and not balanced , they should be used at the slowest speed available , and fed very slowly to avoid binding . Fly cutters can fool you into putting your hand too close to the tool , so if you want to avoid nicked fingers , keep your hands well out of the way . Simple hole drilling operations When drilling all the way through a workpiece , always place a piece of scrap wood underneath . This will not only protect the work table , but also assure a clean breakthrough . Another method of assuring a clean hole is to first drill a small pilot hole all the way through , then drill half way with the dimensional bit , turn the piece over , and finish from the other side . In soft woods with pronounced grain , there is sometimes a tendency for the hole to wander , due to the varying hardness of the wood . In this case , drilling a small pilot hole or clamping the work will do much to improve accuracy . When a hole is to be bored to a predetermined depth , mark the depth on the side of the stock , then run the bit down so that it is even with the mark . The depth gauge rod can now be set , and any number of holes bored to exact and identical depth . 
The old-time bridges over the Merrimac River in Massachusetts are of unusual interest in many respects . For their length , their types of construction , their picturesque settings , and their literary associations , they should be known and remembered . In this sequence I shall write about them in the order of their erection . The first bridge known to have been covered wholly or in part , -- and perhaps the most interesting one , connected Newbury ( now Newburyport ) with Salisbury Point . Its building was first proposed in 1791 , when a group of citizens , mostly Newburyport men , petitioned the General Court for an act of incorporation . This document began : `` No . 1 Newbury Port , may 30th , 1791 `` Whereas , a Bridge over Merrimack River , from the Land of Hon le Jonathan Greenleaf , Esquire , in Newbery , to Deer Island , and from said Island to Salisbury , would be of very extensive utility , by affording a safe Conveyance to Carriages , Teams and Travellers at all seasons of the year , and at all Times of Tide . `` We , the Subscribers , do agree , that as soon as a convenient Number of Persons have subscribed to this , or a similar Writing , We will present a petition to the Hon le General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts , praying for an Act incorporating into a Body politic the subscribers to such Writing with Liberty to build such a Bridge , and a Right to demand a Toll equal to that received at Malden Bridge , and on like Terms , and if such an Act shall be obtained , then we severally agree each with the others , that we will hold in the said Bridge the several shares set against our respective Names , the whole into two hundred shares being divided , and that we will pay such sums of Money at such Times and in such Manners , as by the said proposed Corporation , shall be directed and required . This paper was signed by forty-five persons , subscribing a total of two hundred shares . A month later the General Court served notice to the town of Newbury that the bridge was to be built . The matter was considered and reconsidered , and finally opposed , but in spite of many objections , the Court granted a charter on January 9 , 1792 . On November 26 of that year the bridge was completed and opened . Timothy Palmer , who invented and later patented the arch type of construction for wooden bridges , was the genius who planned and supervised the building of the Essex , or `` Deer Island bridge although the actual work was carried out under the direction of William Coombs , who received $300 as recompense . This two-part bridge is best described by Rev . Timothy Dwight , president of Yale College , in his `` Travels In New-England And New-York , published in New Haven in 1821 . He says of it : `` It consists of two divisions , separated by an island at a small distance from the southern shore . The division between the island and this shore , consists principally of an arch ; hose chord is one hundred and sixty feet , and whose vortex is forty feet ( it was actually 37 feet ) above the high-water mark . In appearance and construction it resembles the Pascataqua bridge . The whole length of Essex bridge is one thousand and thirty feet and its breadth thirty-four . I have already mentioned that Mr . Timothy Palmer of Newburyport was the inventor of the arched bridges in this country . As Mr . Palmer was educated to house-building only , and had never seen a structure of this nature ; e certainly deserves not a little credit for the invention . It is hardly necessary to remind students of covered bridges that Timothy Palmer was born in 1751 in nearby Rowley ; hat he moved with his parents to West Boxford when he was sixteen years old ; nd was there apprenticed to a builder and architect , Moody Spofford . It was indeed a remarkable feat that a man who had had no experience of bridge building should have applied the principle of the arch , which appears in his famous bridges at Portsmouth , Haverhill , and Philadelphia . The Essex Merrimack Bridge when first built was not covered . As far as we know , no American bridge had been thus protected in 1792 . Richard S . Allen is the authority for the statement that the northern section was probably roofed by 1810 . Its original appearance is shown in an engraving published in the `` Massachusetts Magazine in May 1793 , which is reproduced herewith ( Fig . 1 ) . A brief description accompanying the picture says that the bridge contained more than 6000 tons of timber . Between the abutments on the Newbury shore and the south bank of Deer Island there was one span or arch measuring 160 feet ; etween the north shore of Deer Island and the Salisbury side there was an arch of 113 feet and a series of piers with a draw forty feet long . A dinner and celebration in honor of this piece of engineering took place July 4 , 1793 , in a tavern erected by the corporation on the island . It is said that the eccentric Timothy Dexter , who was one of the first share-holders , stood on the table and made a speech worthy of the occasion . The `` Essex Journal says that he `` delivered an oration on the bridge , which for elegance of style , propriety of speech or force of argument , was truly Ciceronian . The reporter must have written this with tongue in cheek , because Dexter oration could hardly be understood ; nd , although he later explained that he was talking French , it seems rather more likely that he had succumbed to the joys of the evening . The north portion of the Essex bridge was well worth the cost of construction , although it proved to be twice what was estimated in the beginning . It stood in its original form until 1882 . The southern half , however , on account of its underbracing , was considered by boat owners a menace to navigation . In 1810 it was torn down and replaced by a chain suspension bridge . This was built by John Templeman from plans submitted by James Finley of Fayette County , Pennsylvania . Timothy Palmer had general supervision of the work . An advertisement in the `` Newburyport Herald , December 21 , 1810 , shows Palmer in a new light as an expert on chain bridges . It reads : `` chain bridges `` . Information is hereby given that Mr . Timothy Palmer of Newburyport , Mass . has agreed to take charge of the concerns of the Patentees of the Chain Bridge , in the states of Massachusetts , New Hampshire , Vermont , Rhode Island , and Connecticut , so far as relates to the sale of Patent rights and the construction of Chain Bridges . `` Mr . Palmer will attend to any applications relating to bridges and if desired will view the proposed site , and lay out and superintend the work , or recommend a suitable person to execute it . John Templeman `` Approved , Timothy Palmer . This chain bridge proved less durable than the wooden arch on the Salisbury end . It fell , February 6 , 1827 , carrying with it a horse and wagon , two men and four oxen . The horse and men were saved , but the oxen drowned . In spite of this catastrophe , the bridge was rebuilt on the same plan and opened again on July 17 , 1827 . This second chain bridge was 570 feet long , had two thirty-foot towers and a draw , and a double roadway . The Essex bridge was a toll crossing until 1868 , when the County Commissioners laid out all the Merrimack bridges as highways . Sturdy and strong after more than a century of continuous use , the old covered , wooden bridge that spans the Tygartis Valley River at Philippi will have a distinctive part in the week-long observance of the first land battle of the Civil War at its home site , May 28th to June 3rd . Colonel Frederick W . Lander , impersonated , will again make his break-neck ride down the steep declivity of Talbott ( now College ) Hill and thunder across the bridge to join Colonel Benjamin F . Kelley ( West ) Virginia Infantry , then swarming through the streets in pursuit of the retreating Confederates . He was closely followed by the Ohio and Indiana troops -- thus the old bridge has another distinction ; hat of being the first such structure secured by force of arms in the war of the 0s . The bridge has survived the natural hazards of the elements , war , fire , and floods , as well as injuries incident to heavy traffic , for more than a hundred years . Twice during the Civil War it was saved from destruction by the opposing armies by the pleas and prayers of a local minister . It still stands as a monument to the engineering skills of the last century and still serves in the gasoline age to carry heavy traffic on U . S . Route 250 -- the old Beverly and Fairmont Turnpike . It is one of the very few , if not the only surviving bridge of its type to serve a main artery of the U . S . highway system , thus it is far more than a relic of the horse and buggy days . This covered , wooden bridge is so closely identified with the first action in the early morning of June 3 , 1861 , and with subsequent troop movements of both armies in the Philippi area that it has become a part and parcel of the war story . So frequently have pictures of the bridge appeared in books and in national publications that it vies with the old John Brown Fort at Harpers Ferry as the two nationally best known structures in West Virginia . Completed and opened for traffic in 1852 , the bridge was designed and built by Lemuel Chenoweth and his brother , Eli , of Beverly . The Chenoweth brothers were experienced bridge builders , and against the competition of other , and better known , bridge designers and builders they had constructed nine of the covered , wooden bridges on the Parkersburg and Staunton Turnpike a dozen years before , as well as many other bridges for several counties . The Philippi bridge , however , was the Chenoweth master piece , with its 139-foot , dual lane , span -- and it stands today as a monument to its builders . Never rebuilt , the bridge was strengtened in 1938 by two extra piers , a concrete floor , and a walk-way along the upper side in order to care for modern traffic . During the war it was in constant use by the wagon trains transporting supplies from the railhead at Grafton to the troops operating in the interior . Union soldiers at times used it for sleeping quarters to escape from the rain or other inclement weather , and some of them left momentoes of their stay by carving their names and small tokens on its walls and beams . But what the elements could not do was seriously threatened when Brigadier General William E . ( Grumble ) Jones reached Philippi while on the famous Jones-Imboden raid in May , 1863 . General Jones was fresh from a long series of bridge burnings , including the long bridge at Fairmont , and , after seeing a great drove of horses and cattle he had collected safely across the bridge , he sent his men to work piling combustibles in and around it . Reverend Joshual Corder , a Baptist minister , gathered a few citizens of Southern sympathies , to call on Jones and plead with him to spare the structure ; e reasoned and argued , pointing out that Jones or other Confederate commanders would need it should troops pass that way in retreat . Jones relented , he did not order his men to apply the torch -- the drove of livestock was driven up the valley , via Beverly , and across the mountains to feed and serve the Confederate army , while Jones and his raiders turned toward Buckhannon to join forces with Imboden . Again Reverend Corder saved the bridge when Union soldiers planned to destroy it , after filling its two lanes with hay and straw -- but for what reason is not recorded nor remembered , certainly not because of pressure from an opposing Confederate force . On the second occasion it took prayers as well as reason to dissuade the soldiers from their purpose . Centering around this historic old structure , a group of public-spirited Barbour County citizens have organized and planned a week-long series of events , beginning on May 28th and continuing through June 3rd , to observe most appropriately the centennial of the first land engagement of the Civil War at Philippi . 
It is a good eight years now since each of us acquired a swimming pool -- eight enlightening , vigorous , rigorous , not wholly unrewarding years . We have learned a lot -- a dash of hydrochemistry here , a bit about plumbing and pump-priming there . We have had sound grounding in the principles of the mailed-fist-in-velvet-glove school of diplomacy . We have become amateur insurance experts and fine-feathered yard birds . True , our problems have lessened a bit as more and more of our neighbors have built their own pools , thereby diluting our spectacular attractions . But problems cling to pools , as any pool owner knows . So our innate generosity of spirit prompts us to share our trials , errors and solutions with any who are taking the pool plunge for the first time -- in the pious hope that some may profit from our experience . Where to put it Position may not be everything , but in the case of a pool it can certainly contribute difficulties , social and physical . We speak from varying viewpoints . One of us has a pool set in a wooded area very near the house . The other has his pool far away from the house in a field high on a hill . If you are dreaming of a blue , shimmering pool right outside your living room windows , close your eyes firmly and fill in the picture with lots and lots of children , damp towels , squashed tubes of suntan oil and semi-inflated plastic toys . You are likely to be nearer the truth . You can also see that the greater the proximity of the pool to your main living quarters , the greater the chance for violation of family privacy , annoying noise and the let -make-your-house-our-club attitude . On the other hand , out-of-sight does not lead to out-of-mind when children cannot be easily observed and you have to make a long trek to reach the pool . Another dilemma : As picturesque as a sylvan pond in the forest may be , trees offer a leaf and root hazard to the well-being of a pool . Yet a grassy approach can turn a pool into a floating lawn every time the grass is mowed . As in choosing a wife , it is only sensible to consider also how appealing a pool is likely to be in bad weather as well as in good . In the colder climes , for instance , you will have to live through the many unglamorous winter months when your pool will hardly look its best . It may be a big hole in the ground filled with salt hay , or an ice floe studded with logs . Even a neat , plastic-covered plunge is not exactly a joy to behold . ( We do , however , recommend those patented covers to prevent both people and junk -- flora and fauna generally -- from accidentally wintering in the pool . ) Probably no location for a pool is perfect on all counts . Naturally it will be dictated to a large extent by the shape and size of your land . But if space and money are no problem and small children are not on hand every day , it is certainly more restful to have your pool and entertainment area removed from the immediate environs of the house . And a good several feet around the pool should be neither greensward nor woods , but good hard pavement . The placement of your pool , however , will not of itself solve the two major problems of pool owning -- those that involve your social life and those pertaining to safety . Coping with them demands stern discipline -- of yourself as well as of your family , neighbors , friends and anyone you ever talked to on a transoceanic jet . Eight years ago while we were going through the mud-sweat-and-tears construction period , we were each solaced by the vision of early morning dips and evening home-comings to a cool family collected around the pool with a buffet table laid out nearby for the lord and master delectation . But not even our first pool-side gatherings came anywhere near those rosy fantasies . We seemed to be witnessing the population explosion right in our own backyards . Our respective families looked as if they had quadrupled . Had we taken a lien on a state park ? Not at all . We had merely been discovered by the pool sharks . We were in business ! From proud pool-owners to perpetual hosts and handymen was a short step -- no more than the change from city clothes to trunks . Naive of us , maybe , but the results of our impulsive invitations to `` come over next summer and swim in our new pool were both unexpected and unsettling . Our book of etiquette After the first few weeks , it was obvious that rules had to be made , laid down and obeyed -- even if our popularity ratings became subnormal as a result . So rules we made , in unabashed collusion . Since our viewpoints in this respect coincided precisely , we present the fruits of our efforts herewith as a single social code for pool owners . First and foremost : No one -- no , not anyone -- in the family is allowed to issue blanket invitations to his or her own circle . Just short of forty lashes we finally managed to coerce our children to this view . Their friends and ours are welcome to share the pool , but on our terms and at our times . No friends are to arrive without an invitation or without at least telephoning beforehand . No ringers , either -- even if they are trailing legitimate invitees . We want to know when the Potlatches telephone exactly how many they are planning to bring , so that we won end up with a splashing mob that looks like Coney Island in August . No young children may come without adults except for a specific , organized , chaperoned party . And accompanying adults are urged to keep an alert and sensible eye on their responsibilities . A gaggle of gabbling mothers , backs to the pool , is no safeguard . No bottle pool is tolerated -- bottle pool being our lingo for those who come to swim and sink into our bar while protesting that they can only dunk and run . ( Sanity , solvency and relations with our wine merchant took a beating that first summer as we inadvertently became the neighborhood free-drink stop . ) We designated one day a week as the time when neighborhood teen-agers might swim at definite hours . This has saved us from constant requests seven days a week and made us feel less brutal to the young `` less fortunate than ours . We also worked out logistics for Sunday afternoon swimmers who arrive two hours early with their weekend guests while we are still enjoying an alfresco lunch en famille . We gently usher them to an island of tables and chairs strategically placed on the far side of the pool where they can amuse each other until we get ready to merge sides . All dressing ( undressing to be more exact ) must be done in our small bath house or at the swimmers ' homes . ( To avoid any possible excuse for a dripping parade through your house , it is a good idea to have a telephone extension near the pool as well as a direct outdoor route between the pool , and the parking area . ) We do , however , provide a limited number of extra suits , mainly for children , and we stock extra towels and a few inexpensive bathing conveniences . Life-preservers , the buckle-on kapok-filled kind , are held in readiness , too , for the very young . Preserving life and limb Safety rules , of course , are more important than all the others put together . In many localities , now , the law requires all pools to be fenced , usually to a minimum height of 5 feet . But fenced or unfenced , no pool-side is the place for running or horseplay . We allow no underwater endurance contests , either , or inexpert versions of water polo . Diving boards must have non-skid surfaces ( coco matting takes an awful beating from chlorine and rots quickly , but grit-impregnated paints are excellent ) . And divers must be enjoined to look before they leap , either on top of someone else or onto a pool edge . Our pools also have wide , shallow steps -- for the benefit of the littlest swimmers who can thus be introduced to the water with far greater safety than a ladder affords . All bottles must be kept a safe distance away from the pool and drinking glasses are banned in favor of plastic or metal cups . When you first acquire a pool , we earnestly recommend -- for your own mental health -- a good long chat with your insurance agent . You should be prepared to cope with any pitfall such as plunges into empty pools or shallow ends and all manner of winter as well as summer lawsuits . Soignee pools , alas , do not just happen . They are the result of a constant and careful contest with the elements . Unless you want to make your wife a pool widow and to spend a great many of your leisure hours nursing your pool pristine purity , its care and feeding -- from pH content to filtering and vacuuming -- is best left to a weekly or bi-monthly professional service . Of course , if your pool is close to the house , your wife can always add it to her housekeeping chores ( you hope ) . Or you can make pool care the price of swimming for teen-agers . Even so , every pool owner , in case of emergency , should have some idea of what makes things work . A brief course in hydraulics from the pool builders may well be appreciated in a future crisis . Preserving the pool A sudden high rise in temperature will turn your pool poison green overnight . You need more chlorine . The walls feel slippery . You need algaecide . With or without professional help , you will have to be able to do some of these jobs yourself unless you have a full-time pool nurse . You should see to it that the trap , the dirt-catcher in front of the filter , is always clean . A pool is no place for a shut trap . You should firmly insist that no bobby pins or hair pins be worn in the water . When shed , they leave rust marks . You can hope against hope that come spring cleaning , your fair-weather friends will lend a hand at scrubbing and furbishing . It has happened . Many hours of spring cleaning will be saved , however , if you remove the main drain grate when you close the pool season in the fall . As the pool is emptied , stand by to brush down the walls and bottom while they are still wet . Much of the dirt and leaf stain is easily removed when damp , but requires dynamite if allowed to dry . If you have a 6- to 8-inch drain pipe , you may easily wash out all the debris when the grate is out . Of course , when your 6-inch torrent of water is released , it may cause a lot of comment as it passes through or by neighboring properties . Do not forget this possibility . If your pool is located on or near sloping ground , it may have natural drainage which is certainly more desirable than to be faced with the annual expense and labor of first pumping out the water and then scooping out all the debris . It may be true that pool lighting dramatizes an evening scene , but lights also attract all the insect life for miles around . Once on the water , these little visitors seldom leave , and this adds to your filtering and vacuuming problems as well as providing a slapping good time for all those present . Often one floodlight high in a tree will provide all the light you need at much less expense . Our experience has taught us that it pays to buy the best equipment possible , from pipes to brushes . Follow pool-care instructions to the letter , and be sure that one person ( in the family or not ) is regularly responsible for each aspect of the job , with no chance for claiming , `` It wasn my turn . Never let anyone not in the know take a turn at the valves -- even if the little boys do want to play space ship . You may find yourself hitting bottom , literally , as you discover that water is running out even while you are putting it in . 
The Office of Business Economics ( OBE ) of the U . S . Department of Commerce provides basic measures of the national economy and current analysis of short-run changes in the economic situation and business outlook . It develops and analyzes the national income , balance of international payments , and many other business indicators . Such measures are essential to its job of presenting business and Government with the facts required to meet the objective of expanding business and improving the operation of the economy . Contact For further information contact Director , Office of Business Economics , U . S . Department of Commerce , Washington 25 , D . C . . Printed material Economic information is made available to businessmen and economists promptly through the monthly Survey Of Current Business and its weekly supplement . This periodical , including weekly statistical supplements , is available for $4 per year from Commerce Field Offices or Superintendent of Documents , U . S . Government Printing Office , Washington 25 , D . C . . Technical assistance to small business community The Small Business Administration ( SBA ) provides guidance and advice on sources of technical information relating to small business management and research and development of products . Small business management Practical management problems and their suggested solutions are dealt with in a series of SBA publications . These publications , written especially for the managers or owners of small businesses , indirectly aid in community development programs . They are written by specialists in numerous types of business enterprises , cover a wide range of subjects , and are directed to the needs and interests of the small firm . SBA offers Administrative Management Courses , which are designed to improve the management efficiency and `` know-how of small business concerns within a community . SBA cosponsors these courses with educational institutions and community groups . Through the SBA Management Counseling Program , practical , personalized advice on sound management principles is available upon request to both prospective and established businessmen in a community . One-day conferences covering some specific phase of business management , also part of the continuing activities of the Small Business Administration , aid community economic development programs . These short , `` streamlined meetings usually are sponsored by local banks , Chambers of Commerce , trade associations , or other civic organizations . Product research and development Production specialists in SBA regional offices are available to help individual small business concerns with technical production problems . Guidance and advice are available on new product research and development ; ew product potential ; rocessing methods ; roduct and market developments ; ew industrial uses for raw , semi-processed and waste , materials ; nd industrial uses for agricultural products . SBA serves also as a clearing house for information on products and processes particularly adaptable for exploitation by small firms . This may be helpful in improving the competitive position of established firms through diversification and expansion or through more economical utilization of plant capacity . Production assistance Production specialists are available in SBA regional offices to help individual small business concerns with technical production problems . These problems frequently arise where a firm is making items for the Government not directly along the lines of its normal civilian business or where the Government specifications require operations that the firm did not understand when it undertook the contract . Production assistance often takes the form of locating tools or materials which are urgently needed . Advice is given also on problems of plant location and plant space . Property sales assistance The property sales assistance program is designed to assist small business concerns that may wish to buy property offered for sale by the Federal Government . Under this program , property sales specialists in the Small Business Administration regional offices help small business concerns to locate Federal property for sale and insure that small firms have the opportunity to bid competitively for surplus personal and real property and certain natural resources , including timber from the national forests . SBA works closely with the principal property disposal installations of the Federal Government in reviewing proposed sales programs and identifying those types of property that small business concerns are most likely to be interested in purchasing . Proposed property sales of general interest to small business concerns are publicized through SBA regional news releases , and by `` flyers directed to the small business concerns . Each SBA regional office also maintains a `` want list of surplus property , principally machinery and equipment , desired by small business concerns in its area . When suitable equipment is located by the SBA representative , the small business concern is contacted and advised on when , where , and how to bid on such property . Facilities inventory Section 8-b-2 of the Small Business Act , as amended , authorizes the SBA to make a complete inventory of the productive facilities of small business concerns . The Administration maintains a productive facilities inventory of small business industrial concerns that have voluntarily registered . It is kept in each Regional office for the small firms within the region . Purpose of this inventory is to include all eligible productive facilities in SBA facilities register so that the small business concerns may have an opportunity to avail themselves of the services authorized by the Congress in establishing the Small Business Administration . These services include procurement and technical assistance and notice of surplus sales and invitations to bid on Government contracts for products and services within the registrants ' field of operations . SBA can make complete facilities inventories of all small business concerns in labor surplus areas within budgetary and staff limitations . Contact For further information , contact Small Business Administration Regional Offices in Atlanta , Ga . ; oston , Mass . ; hicago , Ill . ; leveland , Ohio ; allas , Tex . ; enver , Colo . ; etroit , Mich . ; ansas City , Mo . ; os Angeles , Calif . ; inneapolis , Minn . ; ew York , N . Y . ; hiladelphia , Pa . ; ichmond , Va . ; an Francisco , Calif . ; nd Seattle , Wash . . Branch Offices are located in other large cities . Printed material Small Business Administration , What It Is , What It Does , SBA Services For Community Economic Development , and various other useful publications on currently important management , technical production , and marketing topics are available , on request , from Small Business Administration , Washington 25 , D . C . . New Product Introduction For Small Business Owners , 30 cents ; eveloping And Selling New Products , 45 cents ; . S . Government Purchasing , Specifications , And Sales Directory , 60 cents , are available from the Superintendent of Documents , U . S . Government Printing Office , Washington 25 , D . C . . Loans to small business SBA makes loans to individual small business firms , providing them with financing when it is not otherwise available through private lending sources on reasonable terms . Many such loans have been made to establish small concerns or to aid in their growth , thereby contributing substantially to community development programs . Loan policies SBA loans , which may be made to small manufacturers , small business pools , wholesalers , retailers , service establishments and other small businesses ( when financing is not otherwise available to them on reasonable terms ) , are to finance business construction , conversion , or expansion ; he purchase of equipment , facilities , machinery , supplies , or materials ; r to supply working capital . Evidence that other sources of financing are unavailable must be provided . Types of loans SBA business loans are of two types : `` participation and `` direct . Participation loans are those made jointly by the SBA and banks or other private lending institutions . Direct loans are those made by SBA alone . To qualify for either type of loan , an applicant must be a small business or approved small business `` pool and must meet certain credit requirements . A small business is defined as one which is independently owned and operated and which is not dominant in its field . In addition , the SBA uses such criteria as number of employees and dollar volume of the business . Credit requirements The credit requirements stipulate that the applicant must have the ability to operate the business successfully and have enough capital in the business so that , with loan assistance from the SBA , it will be able to operate on a sound financial basis . A proposed loan must be for sound purposes or sufficiently secured so as to assure a reasonable chance of repayment . The record of past earnings and prospects for the future must indicate it has the ability to repay the loan out of current and anticipated income . Loan amount The amount which may be borrowed from the SBA depends on how much is required to carry out the intended purpose of the loan . The maximum loan which SBA may make to any one borrower is $350 , 000 . Business loans generally are repayable in regular installments -- usually monthly , including interest at the rate of 5-1 percent per annum on the unpaid balance -- and have a maximum maturity of 10 years ; he term of loans for working capital is 6 years . Contact For further information , contact SBA Regional Offices in Atlanta , Ga . ; oston , Mass . ; hicago , Ill . ; leveland , Ohio ; allas , Tex . ; enver , Colo . ; etroit , Mich . ; ansas City , Mo . ; os Angeles , Calif . ; inneapolis , Minn . ; ew York , N . Y . ; hiladelphia , Pa . ; ichmond , Va . ; an Francisco , Calif . ; nd Seattle , Wash . . Branch Offices are located in other large cities . Printed material Small Business Administration , What It Is , What It Does ; BA Business Loans ; nd Small Business Pooling are available , on request , from Small Business Administration , Washington 25 , D . C . , and its regional offices . To cooperatives The Farm Credit Administration , an independent agency located within the Department of Agriculture , supervises and coordinates a cooperative credit system for agriculture . The system is composed of three credit services , Federal Land Banks and National Farm Loan Associations , Federal Intermediate ( short-term ) Credit Banks , and Banks for Cooperatives . This system provides long- and short-term credit to farmers and their cooperative marketing , purchasing , and business service organizations . As a source of investment capital , the system is beneficial to local communities and encourages the development of industries in rural areas . The credit provdied by the first two services in the system outlined above is primarily for general agricultural purposes . The third credit service , Banks for Cooperatives , exists under authority of the Farm Credit Act of 1933 . The Banks for Cooperatives were established to provide a permanent source of credit on a sound basis for farmers ' cooperatives . Types of loans Three distinct classes of loans are made available to farmers ' cooperatives by the Banks for Cooperatives : Commodity loans , operating capital loans , and facility loans . Eligibility To be eligible to borrow from a Bank for Cooperatives , a cooperative must be an association in which farmers act together in processing and marketing farm products , purchasing farm supplies , or furnishing farm business services , and must meet the requirements set forth in the Farm Credit Act of 1933 , as amended . Interest rates Interest rates are determined by the board of directors of the bank with the approval of the Farm Credit Administration . Contact For further information , contact the Bank for Cooperatives serving the region , or the Farm Credit Administration , Research and Information Division , Washington 25 , D . C . . Printed material Available , on request , from U . S . Department of Agriculture , Washington 25 , D . C . , are : Cooperative Farm Credit Can Assist In Rural Development ( Circular No . 44 ) , and The Cooperative Farm Credit System ( Circular No . 36-A ) . Minerals exploration To encourage exploration for domestic sources of minerals , the Office of Minerals Exploration ( OME ) of the U . S . Department of the Interior offers financial assistance to firms and individuals who desire to explore their properties or claims for 1 or more of the 32 mineral commodities listed in the OME regulations . Requirements This help is offered to applicants who ordinarily would not undertake the exploration under present conditions or circumstances at their sole expense and who are unable to obtain funds from commercial sources on reasonable terms . Each applicant is required to own or have sufficient interest in the property to be explored . The Government will contract with an eligible applicant to pay up to one-half of the cost of approved exploration work as it progresses . The applicant pays the rest of the cost , but his own time spent on the work and charges for the use of equipment which he owns may be applied toward his share of the cost . Repayment Funds contributed by the Government are repaid by a royalty on production from the property . If nothing is produced , there is no obligation to repay . A 5-percent royalty is paid on any production during the period the contract is in effect ; f the Government certifies that production may be possible from the property , the royalty obligation continues for the 10-year period usually specified in the contract or until the Government contribution is repaid with interest . The royalty applies to both principal and interest , but it never exceeds 5 percent . Contact Information , application forms , and assistance in filing may be obtained from the Office of Minerals Exploration , U . S . Department of the Interior , Washington 25 , D . C . , or from the appropriate regional office listed below . 
In most of the less developed countries , however , such programing is at best inadequate and at worst nonexistent . Only a very few of the more advanced ones , such as India and Pakistan , have developed systematic techniques of programing . Others have so-called development plans , but some of these are little more than lists of projects collected from various ministries while others are statements of goals without analysis of the actions required to attain them . Only rarely is attention given to accurate progress reports and evaluation . We can help in the planning process . Neither growth nor a development program can be imposed on a country ; t must express the nation own will and goal . Nevertheless , we can administer an aid program in such a manner as to promote the development of responsible programing . First , we can encourage responsibility by establishing as conditions for assistance on a substantial and sustained scale the definition of objectives and the assessment of costs . Second , we can make assistance for particular projects conditional on the consistency of such projects with the program . Third , we can offer technical help in the formulation of programs for development which are adapted to the country objectives and resources . This includes assistance in -- assembling the basic economic , financial , technological , and educational information on which programing depends ; urveying the needs and requirements over time of broad sectors of the economy , such as transport , agriculture , communication , industry , and power ; esigning the financial mechanisms of the economy in ways that will promote growth without inflation ; nd administrative practices which will make possible the more effective review and implementation of programs once established . We must use common sense in applying conditions . The application of conditions in the allocation of aid funds cannot , of course , be mechanical . It must be recognized that countries at different stages of development have very different capabilities of meeting such conditions . To insist on a level of performance in programing and budgeting completely beyond the capabilities of the recipient country would result in the frustration of the basic objective of our development assistance to encourage more rapid growth . In the more primitive areas , where the capacity to absorb and utilize external assistance is limited , some activities may be of such obvious priority that we may decide to support them before a well worked out program is available . Thus , we might provide limited assistance in such fields as education , essential transport , communications , and agricultural improvement despite the absence of acceptable country programs . In such a case , however , we would encourage the recipient country to get on with its programing task , supply it with substantial technical assistance in performing that task , and make it plain that an expansion or even a continuation of our assistance to the country development was conditional upon programing progress being made . At the other end of the spectrum , where the more advanced countries can be relied upon to make well thought through decisions as to project priorities within a consistent program , we should be prepared to depart substantially from detailed project approval as the basis for granting assistance and to move toward long-term support , in cooperation with other developed countries , of the essential foreign exchange requirements of the country development program . D . Encouraging self-help 1 . The reasons for stressing self-help A systematic approach to development budgeting and programing is one important kind of self-help . There are many others . It is vitally important that the new U . S . aid program should encourage all of them , since the main thrust for development must come from the less developed countries themselves . External aid can only be marginal , although the margin , as in the case of the Marshall plan , can be decisive . External aid can be effective only if it is a complement to self-help . U . S . aid , therefore , should increasingly be designed to provide incentives for countries to take the steps that only they themselves can take . Aid advice is not interference . In establishing conditions of self-help , it is important that we not expect countries to remake themselves in our image . Open societies can take many forms , and within very broad limits recipients must be free to set their own goals and to devise their own institutions to achieve those goals . On the other hand , it is no interference with sovereignty to point out defects where they exist , such as that a plan calls for factories without power to run them , or for institutions without trained personnel to staff them . Once we have made clear that we are genuinely concerned with a country development potential , we can be blunt in suggesting the technical conditions that must be met for development to occur . 2 . The range of self-help The major areas of self-help are the following : ( A ) the effective mobilizing of resources . This includes not only development programing , but also establishing tax policies designed to raise equitably resources for investment ; iscal and monetary policies designed to prevent serious inflation ; nd regulatory policies aimed to attract the financial and managerial resources of foreign investment and to prevent excessive luxury consumption by a few . ( B ) the reduction of dependence on external sources . This includes foreseeing balance-of-payments crises , with adequate attention to reducing dependence on imports and adopting realistic exchange rates to encourage infant industries and spur exports . It also includes providing for the training of nationals to operate projects after they are completed . ( C ) tapping the energies of the entire population . For both economic and political reasons all segments of the population must be able to share in the growth of a country . Otherwise , development will not lead to longrun stability . ( D ) honesty in government . In many societies , what we regard as corruption , favoritism , and personal influence are so accepted as consistent with the mores of officialdom and so integral a part of routine administrative practice that any attempt to force their elimination will be regarded by the local leadership as not only unwarranted but unfriendly . Yet an economy cannot get the most out of its resources if dishonesty , corruption , and favoritism are widespread . Moreover , tolerance by us of such practices results in serious waste and diversion of aid resources and in the long run generates anti-American sentiment of a kind peculiarly damaging to our political interest . Some of the most dramatic successes of Communism in winning local support can be traced to the identification -- correct or not -- of Communist regimes with personal honesty and pro-Western regimes with corruption . A requirement of reasonably honest administration may be politically uncomfortable in the short run , but it is politically essential in the long run . 3 . U . S . position on self-help The United States can use its aid as an incentive to self-help by responding with aid on a sustained basis , tailored to priority needs , to those countries making serious efforts in self-help . In many instances it can withhold or limit its aid to countries not yet willing to make such efforts . There are other countries where , with skillful diplomacy , we may be able by our aid to give encouragement to those groups in government which would like to press forward with economic and social reform measures to promote growth . Governments are rarely monolithic . But there will be still other countries where , despite the inadequacy of the level of self-help , we shall deem it wise , for political or military reasons , to give substantial economic assistance . Even in these cases we should promote self-help by making it clear that our supporting assistance is subject to reduction and ultimately to termination . E . Encouraging a long-term approach 1 . Development requires a long-term approach . The most fundamental concept of the new approach to economic aid is the focusing of our attention , our resources , and our energies on the effort to promote the economic and social development of the less developed countries . This is not a short-run goal . To have any success in this effort , we must ourselves view it as an enterprise stretching over a considerable number of years , and we must encourage the recipients of our aid to view it in the same fashion . Most of our aid will go to those nearing self-sufficiency . How long it will take to show substantial success in this effort will vary greatly from country to country . In several significant cases , such as India , a decade of concentrated effort can launch these countries into a stage in which they can carry forward their own economic and social progress with little or no government-to-government assistance . These cases in which light is already visible at the other end of the tunnel are ones which over the next few years will absorb the bulk of our capital assistance . Gradually others will move up to the same level . The number of countries thus favorably situated is small , but their peoples constitute over half of the population of the underdeveloped world . Meantime , over the decade of the sixties , we can hope that many other countries will ready themselves for the big push into self-sustaining growth . In still others which are barely on the threshold of the transition into modernity , the decade can bring significant progress in launching the slow process of developing their human resources and their basic services to the point where an expanded range of developmental activities is possible . Aid is a long-term process . The whole program must be conceived of as an effort , stretching over a considerable number of years , to alter the basic social and economic conditions in the less developed world . It must be recognized as a slow-acting tool designed to prevent political and military crises such as those recently confronted in Laos and Cuba . It is not a tool for dealing with these crises after they have erupted . 2 . The specific reasons for a long-term approach ( A ) the need to budget a period of years . Many of the individual projects for which development assistance is required call for expenditures over lengthy periods . Dams , river development schemes , transportation networks , educational systems require years to construct . Moreover , on complex projects , design work must be completed and orders for machinery and equipment placed months or even years before construction can commence . Thus , as a development program is being launched , commitments and obligations must be entered into in a given year which may exceed by twofold or threefold the expenditures to be made in that year . The capital expansion programs of business firms involve multi-year budgeting and the same is true of country development programs . ( B ) the need to plan investment programs . More importantly , several of the more advanced of the less developed countries have found through experience that they must plan their own complex investment programs for at least 5 years forward and tentatively for considerably more than that if they are to be sure that the various interdependent activities involved are all to take place in the proper sequence . Without such forward planning , investment funds are wasted because manufacturing facilities are completed before there is power to operate them or before there is transport to service them ; r a skilled labor force is trained before there are plants available in which they can be employed . ( C ) the need to allocate country resources . Most important of all , the less developed countries must be persuaded to take the necessary steps to allocate and commit their own resources . They must be induced to establish the necessary tax , fiscal , monetary , and regulatory policies . They must be persuaded to adopt the other necessary self-help measures which are described in the preceding section . The taking of these steps involves tough internal policy decisions . Moreover , once these steps are taken , they may require years to make themselves felt . They must , therefore , be related to long-range development plans . 3 . Providing an incentive If the less developed countries are to be persuaded to adopt a long-term approach , the United States , as the principal supplier of external aid , must be prepared to give long-term commitments . In this , as in so many aspects of our development assistance activities , the incentive effects of the posture we take are the most important ones . The extent to which we can persuade the less developed countries to appraise their own resources , to set targets toward which they should be working , to establish in the light of this forward perspective the most urgent priorities for their immediate attention , and to do the other things which they must do to help themselves , all on a realistic long-term basis , will depend importantly on the incentives we place before them . If they feel that we are taking a long-term view of their problems and are prepared to enter into reasonably long-term association with them in their development activities , they will be much more likely to undertake the difficult tasks required . Perhaps the most important incentive for them will be clear evidence that where other countries have done this kind of home work we have responded with long-term commitments . 
You have heard him tell these young people that during his almost 50 years of service in the Congress he has seen the Kaisers and the Hitlers and the Mussolinis , the Tojos and Stalins and Khrushchevs , come and go and that we are passing on to them the freest Nation that mankind has ever known . Then I have seen the pride of country well in the eyes of these young people . So , I say , Mr . Speaker , God bless you and keep you for many years not only for this body but for the United States of America and the free world . You remember the words of President Kennedy a week or so ago , when someone asked him when he was in Canada , and Dean Rusk was in Europe , and Vice President Johnson was in Asia , `` Who is running the store ? And he said , `` The same fellow who has been running it , Sam Rayburn . General leave to extend Mr . McCormack . Mr . Speaker , I ask unanimous consent that all Members who desire to do so may extend their remarks at this point in the record ; nd also that they may have 5 legislative days in which to extend their remarks . The speaker pro tempore . Is there objection to the request of the gentleman from Massachusetts ? There was no objection . Remarks of Hon . Joseph P . Addabbo of New York Mr . Addabbo . It is notably significant that so many Members from both sides of the aisle express their respect and admiration for our beloved Speaker , the Honorable Sam Rayburn . I purposely refrained from adding the usual distinction of saying that he was from the State of Texas . I did so because I agree with so many here today , that he is the beloved Speaker of all the people of the United States . For the dignity , the influence , and the power of the legislative branch of our Government -- it is a privilege for us to do honor to this great man who represents not alone his own district but all the people of our country . To honor him is to honor ourselves . In this my first year as a Member of this body I have experienced many memorable moments . Many of these experiences are so important that they will be cherished forever by me . And , like many of you here present , I hold as the highlight of all , the occasion of my first meeting with the honorable Speaker of the House . At that time , he afforded me the courtesy of his busy workday for such length as I may need , to speak about my background , my hopes , my views on various national and local topics , and any problems that I may have been vexed with at the time . He was fatherly in his handling of all subjects with me and tremendously wise in his counsel . In conclusion , he wished me well -- and as kindly and humbly as this humane gentleman could express himself , he asked to be remembered to my wife and children . In my short period here I believe that at no time has he been otherwise than the most popular man on both sides of the aisle . He is most effective in the ordinary business of the House , and in the legislative accomplishments of this session , he easily rose to great occasion -- even at the height of unpleasantness and exciting legislative struggle -- and as the Nation witnessed these contests , he rose , even as admitted by those who differed with him , to the proportions of a hero and a noble partisan . I am highly privileged today to commemorate the brilliant career of this parliamentary giant . He will ever be my example as a true statesman ; ne who is thoroughly human , who affects no dignity , and who is endowed with real ability , genuine worth , and sterling honesty -- all dedicated to secure the best interests of the country he has loved and served so long . May the Divine Speaker in Heaven bless this country with Sam Rayburn continued service here for years to come . Remarks of Hon . Wayne L . Hays of Ohio Mr . Hays . It is a matter of deep personal satisfaction for me to add my voice to the great and distinguished chorus of my colleagues in this paean of praise , respect , and affection for Speaker Sam Rayburn . In this hour of crisis , the wisdom , the dedication , the stabilizing force that he represents in current American government is an almost indispensable source of strength . He has become in this half century the grand old man of American history . It seems to me that the prayers of the whole free world must rise like some vast petition to Providence that Sam Rayburn vigor and his life remain undiminished through the coming decades . Here briefly in this humble tribute I have sought for some simple and succinct summation that would define the immense service of this patriot to his country . But the task is beyond me because I hold it impossible to compress in a sentence or two the complicated and prodigious contributions Sam Rayburn has made as an individual , as a legislator , as a statesman and as a leader and conciliator , to the majestic progress of this Nation . It happens that I am a legislator from Ohio and that I feel deeply about the needs , the aspirations , the interests of my district and my State . What Sam Rayburn life proves to us all is the magnificent lesson in political science that one can devotedly and with absolute dedication represent the seemingly provincial interests of one own community , one own district , one own State , and by that help himself represent even better the sweep and scope of the problems of this the greatest nation of all time . For Sam Rayburn never forgot Bonham , his home community , and he never forgot Texas . In the same way I like to think we owe our loyalty as legislators to our community , our district , our State . And , if we follow the Rayburn pattern , as consciously or by an instinctual political sense I like to think I have followed it , then the very nature of our loyalty to our own immediate areas must necessarily be reflected in the devotion of our services to our country . For what Sam Rayburn life in this House teaches us is that loyalty and character are not divisive and there is no such thing as being for your country and neglecting your district . There is no such thing as being diligent about national affairs but indifferent about home needs . The two are as one . This may not be the greatest but it certainly comes close to being the greatest lesson Sam Rayburn career , up to this hour , teaches all of us who would aspire to distinction in political life under our processes of government . More than that , Sam Rayburn is the very living symbol of an iron-clad integrity so powerful in his nature and so constantly demonstrated that he can count some of his best friends in the opposition . Through the most rancorous battles of political controversy and the most bitterly fought national and presidential campaigns his character shines as an example of dignity and honesty , forthrightness and nobility . Sam Rayburn has never had to look back at any of his most devastating fights and ever feel ashamed of his conduct as a combatant under fire or his political manners in the heat of conflicting ambitions . This means much to the American tradition . It is an answer in its way , individual and highly dramatic , to the charge that the democratic process is necessarily vicious in its campaign characteristics . And the name Rayburn is one of the most dominant in the history of American politics for the last half century . It is , I insist , hard to define the Rayburn contribution to our political civilization because it is so massive and so widespread and so complicated , and because it goes so deep . But this we know : Here is a great life that in every area of American politics gives the American people occasion for pride and that has invested the democratic process with the most decent qualities of honor , decency , and self-respect . I pray to God that he may be spared to us for many years to come for this is an influence the United States and the whole world can ill afford to lose . Remarks of Hon . Melvin Price of Illinois Mr . Price . All but two of my nine terms in the House of Representatives has been served under the Speakership of Sam Rayburn . Of this I am proud . I have a distinct admiration for this man we honor today because of the humility with which he carries his greatness . And Sam Rayburn is a great man -- one who will go down in American history as a truly great leader of the Nation . He will be considered not only great among his contemporaries , but as great among all the Americans who have played a part in the country history since the beginning . I pay my personal tribute to Sam Rayburn , stalwart Texan and great American , not only because today he establishes a record of having served as Speaker of the House of Representatives more than twice as long as Henry Clay , but because of the contributions he has made to the welfare of the people of the Nation during his almost half century of service as a Member of Congress . Speaker Rayburn has not limited his leadership as a statesman to his direction of the House in the Speaker chair . He had an outstanding record as a legislator since the start of his career in the House in 1913 , the 63d Congress . No one has sponsored more progressive and important legislation than has Sam Rayburn . He is the recognized `` father of the Rural Electrification Administration and the Security and Exchange Commission . But to run the gauntlet of the programs Sam Rayburn brought into being through his legislative efforts would fill the pages of today Record . No greater pleasure has come to me in my own service in this House than to be present today to participate in this tribute to this great Speaker , this great legislator , this great Texan , this great American . My sincere wish is that he continues to add to this record he sets here today . Remarks of Hon . John S . Monagan of Connecticut Mr . Monagan . Sam Rayburn is one of the greatest American public figures in the history of our country and I consider that I have been singly honored in the privilege of knowing Sam Rayburn and sharing with him the rights and obligations of a Member of the House of Representatives in the Congress of the United States . Others may speak of Speaker Rayburn uniquely long and devoted service ; f his championship of many of the progressive social measures which adorn our statute books today , and of his cooperation in times of adversity with Presidents of both of our major parties in helping to pilot the Ship of State through the shoals of today stormy international seas . I prefer to speak , however , of Sam Rayburn , the person , rather than Sam Rayburn , the American institution . Although Sam Rayburn affects a gruff exterior in many instances , nevertheless he is fundamentally a man of warm heart and gentle disposition . No one could be more devoted than he to the American Congress as an institution and more aware of its historical significance in the political history of the world , and I shall never forget his moving talks , delivered in simple yet eloquent words , upon the meaning of our jobs as Representatives in the operation of representative government and their importance in the context of today assault upon popular government . Above all , he is a person to whom a fledgling Representative can go to discuss the personal and professional problems which inevitably confront a new Congressman . In this role of father confessor , he has always been most characteristic and most helpful . On September 16 , Sam Rayburn will have served as Speaker twice as long as any predecessor and I am proud to join with others in marking this date , and in expressing my esteem for that notable American , Sam Rayburn . 
Origin of state automobile practices . The practice of state-owned vehicles for use of employees on business dates back over forty years . At least one state vehicle was in existence in 1917 . The state presently owns 389 passenger vehicles in comparison to approximately 200 in 1940 . The automobile maintenance unit , or motor pool , came into existence in 1942 and has been responsible for centralized maintenance and management of state-owned transportation since that time . The motor pool has made exceptional progress in automotive management including establishment of cost billing systems , records keeping , analyses of vehicle use , and effecting economies in vehicle operation . Cars were operated in 1959 for an average $. 027 per mile . Purchase of state vehicles is handled similarly to all state purchases . Unit prices to the state are considerably lower than to the general public because of quantity purchases and no payment of state sales or federal excise taxes . Vehicle purchase , assignment and use policies . The legislature role in policy determination concerning state-owned vehicles has been confined almost exclusively to appropriating funds for vehicles . The meaningful policies governing the purchase , assignment , use and management of state vehicles have been shaped by the state administrative officers . Meaningful policies include : ( A ) kinds of cars the state should own , ( B ) when cars should be traded , ( C ) the need and assignment of vehicles , ( D ) use of cars in lieu of mileage allowances , ( E ) employees taking cars home , and ( F ) need for liability insurance on state automobiles . A review of these policies indicates : ( 1 ) The state purchases and assigns grades of cars according to need and position status of driver and use of vehicle . ( 2 ) The purchase of compact ( economy ) cars is being made currently on a test basis . ( 3 ) Cars are traded mostly on a three-year basis in the interest of economy . ( 4 ) The factors governing need and assignment of cars are flexible according to circumstances . ( 5 ) Unsuccessful efforts have been made to replace high mileage allowances with state automobiles . ( 6 ) It is reasonably economical for the state to have drivers garage state cars at their homes . ( 7 ) The state has recently undertaken liability insurance for drivers of state cars . Automobile practices in other states . A survey of practices and policies in other states concerning assignment and use of state automobiles reveals several points for comparison with Rhode Island practices . Forty-seven states assign or provide vehicles for employees on state business . Two other states provide vehicles , but only with legislative approval . States which provide automobiles for employees assign them variously to the agency , the individual , or to a central pool . Twenty-six states operate a central motor pool for acquisition , allocation and maintenance of state-owned vehicles . Nineteen states report laws , policies or regulations for assigning state vehicles in lieu of paying mileage allowances . Of these states the average `` change-over point ( at which a car is substituted for allowances ) is 13 , 200 miles per year . Mileage allowances . Mileage allowances for state employees are of two types : ( A ) actual mileage and ( B ) fixed monthly allowances . Actual mileage allowances are itemized reimbursements allowed employees for the use of personally-owned vehicles on state business at the rate of $. 07 per mile . Fixed monthly allowances are reimbursements for the same purpose except on a non-itemized basis . Both allowances are governed by conditions and restrictions set forth in detail in the state Travel Regulations . Rhode Island reimburseable rate of $. 07 per mile for use of personally-owned cars compares favorably with other states ' rates . The average of states ' rates is $. 076 per mile . Rhode Island rate of $. 07 per mile is considerably lower than reimburseable rates in the federal government and in industry nationally which approximate a $. 09 per mile average . Actual mileage allowances are well-administered and not unduly expensive for the state . The travel regulations , requirements and procedures governing reimbursement are controlled properly and not overly restrictive . Fixed monthly allowances are a controversial subject . They have a great advantage in ease of audit time and payment . However , they lend themselves to abuse and inadequate control measures . Flat payments over $50 per month are more expensive to the state than the assignment of state-owned vehicles . Travel allowances . Travel allowances , including subsistence , have been revised by administrative officials recently and compare favorably with other states ' allowances . With few exceptions travelers on state business are allowed actual travel expenses and $15 per day subsistence . Travel allowances are well-regulated and pose little problem in administration and audit control . Origin of state automobile practices general background . It is difficult to pinpoint the time of origin of the state purchasing automobiles for use of employees in Rhode Island . Few records are available concerning the subject prior to 1940 . Those that are available shed little light . The Registry of Motor Vehicles indicates that at least one state automobile was registered as far back as 1917 . It should be enough to say that the practice of the state buying automobiles is at least forty years old . The best reason that can be advanced for the state adopting the practice was the advent of expanded highway construction during the 1920s and 0s . At that time highway engineers traveled rough and dirty roads to accomplish their duties . Using privately-owned vehicles was a personal hardship for such employees , and the matter of providing state transportation was felt perfectly justifiable . Once the principle was established , the increase in state-owned vehicles came rapidly . And reasons other than employee need contributed to the growth . Table 1 immediately below shows the rate of growth of vehicles and employees . This rate of increase does not signify anything in itself . It does not indicate loose management , ineffective controls or poor policy . But it does show that automobiles have increased steadily over the years and in almost the same proportion to the increase of state employees . In the past twenty years the ratio of state-owned automobiles per state employees has varied from 1 to 22 then to 1 to 23 now . Whether there were too few automobiles in 1940 or too many now is problematical . The fact is simply that state-owned vehicles have remained in practically the same proportion as employees to use them . History and operation of the motor pool . While the origin of state-owned automobiles may be obscured , subsequent developments concerning the assignment , use , and management of state automobiles can be related more clearly . Prior to 1942 , automobiles were the individual responsibility of the agency to which assigned . This responsibility included all phases of management . It embraced determining when to purchase and when to trade vehicles , who was to drive , when and where repairs were to be made , where gasoline and automobile services were to be obtained and other allied matters . In 1942 , however , the nation was at war . Gasoline and automobile tires were rationed commodities . The state was confronted with transportation problems similar to those of the individual . It met these problems by the creation of the state automobile maintenance unit ( more popularly called the motor pool ) , a centralized operation for the maintenance and control of all state transportation . The motor pool then , as now , had headquarter facilities in Providence and other garages located throughout the state . It was organizationally the responsibility of the Department of Public Works and was financed on a rotary fund basis with each agency of government contributing to the pool operation . In 1951 the pool operation was transferred to the newly-created Department of Administration , an agency established as the central staff and auxiliary department of the state government . The management of state-owned vehicles since that time has been described in a recent report in the following manner : `` Under this new management considerable progress appears to have been made . The agencies of government are now billed for the actual cost of services provided to each passenger car rather than the prior uniform charge for all cars . Whereas the maintenance rotary fund had in the past sustained losses considerably beyond expectations , the introduction of the cost-billing system plus other control refinements has resulted in keeping the fund on a proper working basis . One indication of the merits of the new management is found in the fact that during the period 1951-1956 , while total annual mileage put on the vehicles increased 35% , the total maintenance cost increased only 11% . `` In order to further refine the management of passenger vehicles , on July 1 , 1958 , the actual title to every vehicle was transferred , by Executive Order , to the Division of Methods , Research and Office Services . The objective behind this action was to place in one agency the responsibility for the management , assignment , and replacement of all vehicles . ( Note : So far as State Police cars are concerned , only their replacement is under this division ) . This tied in closely with the current attempt to upgrade state-owned cars to the extent that vehicles are not retained beyond the point where maintenance costs ( in light of depreciation ) become excessive . Moreover , it allows the present management to reassign vehicles so that mileage will be more uniformly distributed throughout the fleet ; or example , if one driver puts on 22 , 000 miles per year and another driver 8 , 000 miles per year , their cars will be switched so that both cars will have 30 , 000 miles after two years , rather than 44 , 000 miles ( and related higher maintenance costs ) and 16 , 000 miles respectively . The motor pool is a completely centralized and mechanized operation . It handles all types of vehicle maintenance , but concentrates more on `` service station activities than on extensive vehicle repairs . It contracts with outside repair garages for much of the latter work . Where the pool excels is in its compilation of maintenance and cost-data studies and analyses . Pool records reveal in detail the cost per mile and miles per gallon of each vehicle , the miles traveled in one year or three years , the periods when vehicle costs become excessive , and when cars should be traded for sound economies . From this , motor pool personnel develop other meaningful and related data . In 1959-60 , vehicles averaged an operating cost of $. 027 per mile . Based on this figure and considering depreciation costs of vehicles , pool personnel have determined that travel in excess of 10 , 000 miles annually is more economical by state car than by payment of allowances for use of personally-owned vehicles . They estimate further that with sufficient experience and when cost-data of compact cars is compiled , the break-even point may be reduced to 7 , 500 miles of travel per year . Table 2 shows operating cost data of state vehicles selected at random . One matter of concern to the complete effectiveness of pool operations is the lack of adequate central garage facilities . Present pool quarters at two locations in Providence are crowded , antiquated and , in general , make for inefficient operation in terms of dispersement of personnel and duplication of such operational needs as stock and repair equipment . Good facilities would be a decided help to pool operations and probably reduce vehicle costs even more . Purchasing practices . The purchase of state-owned vehicles is handled in the same manner as all other purchases of the state . Requests are made by the motor pool along with any necessary cooperation from the agencies to which assignments of cars will be made . Bids are evaluated by the Division of Purchases with the assistance of pool staff , and awards for the purchase of the automobiles are made to the lowest responsible bidders . Unit prices for state vehicles are invariably lower than to the general public . The reasons are obvious : ( 1 ) the state is buying in quantity , and ( 2 ) it has no federal excise or state sales tax to pay . Until 1958 the state was also entitled to a special type of manufacturers ' discount through the dealers . In that ownership of all vehicles rests with the state motor pool , cars are paid for with funds appropriated to the agencies but transferred to the rotary fund mentioned earlier . This is a normal governmental procedure which reflects more accurately cost-accounting principles . The assignment and use of vehicles after purchase is another matter to be covered in detail later . Vehicle purchase , assignment , and use policies Probably the most important of all matters for review are the broad administrative policies governing the purchase , assignment , use , and management of state vehicles . The legislature role in policy determination in this area for years has been confined almost solely to the amount of funds appropriated annually for the purchase and operation of vehicles . The more meaningful policies have been left to the judgment of the chief administrative officer of the state -- the Director of Administration . 
The Rhode Island property tax There was a time some years ago when local taxation by the cities and towns was sufficient to support their own operations and a part of the cost of the state government as well . For many years a state tax on cities and towns was paid by the several municipalities to the state from the proceeds of the general property tax . This tax was discontinued in 1936 . Since that time the demands of the citizens for new and expanded services have placed financial burdens on the state which could not have been foreseen in earlier years . At the same time there has been an upgrading and expansion of municipal services as well . Thus , there has come into being a situation in which the state must raise all of its own revenues and , in addition , must give assistance to its local governments . This financial assistance from the state has become necessary because the local governments themselves found the property tax , or at least at the rates then existing , insufficient for their requirements . Consequently there have developed several forms of grants-in-aid and shared taxes , as well as the unrestricted grant to local governments for general purposes whose adoption accompanied the introduction of a sales tax at the state level . Notwithstanding state aid , the local governments are continuing to seek additional revenue of their own by strengthening the property tax . This is being done both by the revaluation of real property and by seeking out forms of personal property hitherto neglected or ignored . Taxation of tangible movable property in Rhode Island has been generally of a `` hands off nature due possibly to several reasons : ( 1 ) local assessors , in the main , are not well paid and have inadequate office staffs , ( 2 ) the numerous categories of this component of personal property make locating extremely difficult , and ( 3 ) the inexperience of the majority of assessors in evaluating this type of property . Problems of taxing personal property . Among the many problems in the taxing of personal property , and of movable tangible property in particular , two are significant : ( 1 ) situs , ( 2 ) fair and equitable assessment of value . These problems are not local to Rhode Island , but are recognized as common to all states . Situs of property . Although the laws of the various states , in general , specify the situs of property , i . e . , residence or domicile of the owner , or location of the property , the exceptions regarding boats , airplanes , mobile homes , etc . , seem to add to the uncertainty of the proper origination point for assessment . Rhode Island law specifies that all real estate is taxable in the town in which it is situated . It also provides for the taxation of all personal property , belonging to inhabitants of the state , both tangible and intangible , and the tangible personal property of non-residents in this state . In defining personal property , it specifically mentions `` all ships or vessels , at home or abroad . Intangible property is taxable wherever the owner has a place of abode the greater portion of the year . Although a similar situs for tangible property is mentioned in the statute , this is cancelled out by the provision that definite kinds of property `` and all other tangible property situated or being in any town is taxable where the property is situated . This would seem to fix the tax situs of all movable personal property at its location on December 31 . Both boats and aircraft would fall within this category , as well as motor vehicles . The location of the latter now is determined for tax purposes at the time of registration , and it is now accepted practice to consider a motor vehicle as being situated where it is garaged . Obviously , it would be impossible to determine where every vehicle might be on the 31st day of December . In view of the acceptance accorded the status of motor vehicles for tax purposes , in the absence of any specific provision it would seem entirely consistent to apply the same interpretation to boats or aircraft . A recent example of this problem is the flying of six airplanes , on December 31 , 1960 , from the Newport Airpark in Middletown , to the North Central Airport in Smithfield . This situation resulted in both towns claiming the tax , and probably justifiably . Middletown bases its claim on the general provision of the law that `` all rateable property , both tangible and intangible , shall be taxed to the owner thereof in the town in which such owner shall have had his actual place of abode for the larger portion of the twelve ( 12 ) months next preceding the first day of April in each year . The Smithfield tax assessor , in turn , claims the tax under the provision of law `` and all other tangible personal property situated or being in any town , in or upon any place of storage shall be taxed to such person in the town where said property is situated . Assessment of value . This problem of fair and equitable assessment of value is a difficult one to solve in that the determination of fair valuation is dependent on local assessors , who in general are non-professional and part-time personnel taking an individualistic approach to the problem . This accounts for the wide variance in assessment practices of movable tangible property in the various municipalities in Rhode Island . This condition will undoubtedly continue until such time as a state uniform system of evaluation is established , or through mutual agreement of the local assessing officials for a method of standard assessment practice to be adopted . The Rhode Island Public Expenditure Council in its publication once commented : `` The most realistic way of facing up to this problem would be to have the State take over full responsibility for assessing all taxable property . An adequately staffed and equipped State assessing office could apply uniform methods and standards which would go far toward producing equitable assessments on all properties throughout the State . A single statewide assessing unit would eliminate the differences and complications that are inherent in a system of 39 different and independent assessing units . The Institute of Public Administration , in its report to the State Fiscal Study Commission in 1959 , recommended `` consolidating and centralizing all aspects of property tax administration in a single state agency professionally organized and equipped for the job . The resulting setup , it was declared , `` would be similar to that which is in successful operation in a number of metropolitan counties as large or larger than Rhode Island . Practices in Rhode Island . To determine the practice and attitude of municipal governments concerning tangible movable property , a questionnaire was sent to all local government assessors or boards of assessors in Rhode Island . The replies from each individual town are not given in detail because the questions asked the personal opinion of the several assessors and are not necessarily the established policy of the town in each case . There are legitimate reasons for differences of opinion among the assessors as a whole and among the public officials in each town . These opinions of the assessors are of significance in indicating what their thinking seems to be at the present time . In reply to a question of whether they now tax boats , airplanes and other movable property excluding automobiles , nineteen said that they did and twenty that they did not . The wording of the question was quite general and may have been subject to different interpretations . One assessor checked boats only , another trailers and tractors , one mentioned house trailers , and two others referred to trailers without specifying the type . In two cases , airplanes only were indicated . It is difficult to tabulate exactly what was meant in each individual situation , but the conclusion may be drawn that 21 towns do not assess movable personal property , and of the remainder only certain types are valued for tax purposes . Boats were indicated specifically by only one of the five towns known to tax boats . It would seem , then , that movable property and equipment is not taxed as a whole but that certain types are taxed in towns where this is bound to be expedient for that particular kind of personal property . So few answered the question relating to their efforts to assess movable property that the results are inconclusive . Only four towns indicated that they made any more than a normal effort to list property of this kind . Of greater interest is a question as to whether movable property was assessed according to its location or ownership . Fifteen stated that it was according to location , four by residence of the owner , and nineteen did not answer . Twenty-seven assessors stated that they were in favor of improved means for assessing movable personal property , and only five were opposed . Seven others expressed no opinion . On this point there was fairly general agreement that assessors would like to do more than they are doing now . It is not clear , however , whether they are thinking of all movable property or only of boats , trailers , aircraft or certain other types of personal property whose assessment would be advantageous to their particular towns . Another question that was asked of the assessors was whether they favored the assessment of movable property at its location or at the residence of the owner . Eighteen voted for assessment by the town in which it is located and eleven preferred assessment by the town in which the owner resides . Ten others made no reply . Of those who have an opinion , it seems that assessment by location is preferred . There was one vote for location being the place where the property is situated for the greater portion of the twelve months preceding the assessment date . To summarize , it may be said that there is no one prevailing practice in Rhode Island with respect to the taxation of movable property , that assessors would like to see an improvement , and of those who have an opinion , that assessment by the town of location is preferred on the basis of their present knowledge . The need for greater knowledge is evident from their replies . Boats as personal property taxing of boats . Interest has been shown for a number of years by local assessors in the possibility of taxing boats . Assessors in Rhode Island are charged not only with placing a valuation upon real and personal property , but they also have the responsibility to raise by a tax `` a sum not less than nor more than a specified amount as ordered by a city council or financial town meeting . It has been obvious to the assessors , particularly those in shore communities , that boats comprise the largest category of tangible personal property which they have been unable to reach . Through their professional organization , the Rhode Island Tax Officials Association the question of taxing boats long has been debated and discussed . No satisfactory solution has been found , but this is due more to the difficulties inherent in the problem than to a lack of interest or diligence on the part of the assessors . It has been estimated that the value of boats in Rhode Island waters is something in excess of fifty million dollars , excluding commercial boats . It is obvious that this is a potential and lucrative source of revenue for the assessors of those towns where a substantial amount of such property would be subject to taxation . It is known that at least five towns ( Barrington , Bristol , Narragansett , Newport and Westerly ) place some value on some boats for tax purposes . However , few are taxed , and the owners and location of most boats are unknown to the assessors on the date of assessment of town valuations . No one really knows how many boats there actually are or what their aggregate value may be . Slightly more than 5 , 000 boats were registered with the Coast Guard prior to the recent passage of the state boating law . Only a few more than 10 , 000 boats had been registered with the Division of Harbors and Rivers at the end of the 1960 boating season , but many had been taken out of the water early when the threat of a hurricane brought the season to an early close . The assessors ' association , meeting at Narragansett in September 1960 , devoted its session to a discussion of the boat problem . 
Local industry investment in Rhode Island was the big story in 1960 industrial development effort . Fifty-two companies started or committed themselves to new plant construction , totaling 1 , 418 , 000 square feet and representing an investment of $11 , 900 , 000 ; new post-World War 2 , record . With minor exceptions , this expansion was instituted either by firms based in Rhode Island or out-of-state manufacturers already operating here . What made these new location figures particularly impressive was the fact that although 1960 was a year of mild business recession throughout the nation , Rhode Island scored marked progress in new industry , new plants , and new jobs . Of the major expansions in 1960 , three were financed under the R . I . Industrial Building Authority 100% guaranteed mortgage plan : Collyer Wire , Leesona Corporation , and American Tube & Controls . Leading firms that arranged their own financing included Speidel Corporation , Cornell-Dubilier , Photek , Inc . Division of Textron , Narragansett Gray Iron Foundry , W . R . Cobb Company , and Mays Manufacturing Company . Expansion and relocation of industry in Rhode Island is the direct responsibility of the Development Council Industrial Division , and the figures quoted above indicate a successful year operation . Industrial Division personnel worked with 54 out-of-state and 97 Rhode Island concerns during 1960 , many of whom are still interested in a Rhode Island location . They are conscious of this state new feeling of optimism and assurance and are definitely impressed by the number of new plants and construction projects in Rhode Island . Aids to small business Although much of the Industrial Division promotional effort is devoted to securing new locations and expansions by major industries , small business is also afforded considerable attention . Our Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce carries on a vigorous program , directly aimed at solving and expediting the problems of manufacturers in the lower employment categories . A primary function is the operation of a Government Bid Center , which receives bids daily from the Federal Government principal purchasing agencies . Assistance is rendered to interested Rhode Island businessmen concerning interpretation of bid invitations , where to obtain specifications , and follow-ups concerning qualification . During the past year , 10 , 517 government bid invitations were received and 4 , 427 procurement leads were mailed to Rhode Island manufacturers . In addition , the Office domestic trade program provided consultant services to those seeking information on establishment of new businesses ; ow and where to apply for financial assistance ; etails on marketing ; nformation concerning patents , copyrights and trade marks , availability of technical reports , and other subjects of interest to small business . The Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce is also active in the field of international trade , assisting Rhode Island firms in developing and enlarging markets abroad . This office cooperates with the U . S . Department of Commerce in giving statewide coverage to services which include : statistics on markets abroad ; ocating foreign agents , buyers , distributors , etc . ; nformation on foreign and domestic import duties and regulations , licensing , investments , and establishing of branch representatives or plants abroad , and documentary requirements concerning export shipments and arrangements for payment . During the year 1960 , this office supplied 954 visitors with information related to foreign and domestic commerce , and made 73 field visits . Advertising program Our media advertising continued , during 1960 , its previous effective program that stressed such specifics as 100% financing , plant availabilities , and location advantages . We also continued to run a series of ads featuring endorsement of Rhode Island by industrialists who had recently established new plants here . To reach a still greater audience of location-minded manufacturers , our industrial advertising budget for the fiscal year was increased from $32 , 000 to $40 , 000 , and the Industrial Building Authority financial participation was upped from $17 , 000 to $20 , 000 . Newspaper advertising was mainly concentrated in the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Eastern and Midwestern editions ) which averaged two prominent ads per month , and to a lesser degree the New York Herald Tribune and , for the west coast , the Los Angeles Times and the Wall Street Journal ( Pacific Coast edition ) . In addition to the regular schedule , advertisements were run for maximum impact in special editions of the New York Times , Boston Herald , American Banker , Electronic News and , for local promotion , the Providence Sunday Journal . Magazine advertising included Management Methods , The New Englander , U . S . Investor , and Plant Location . The direct mail campaign consisted of 3 intra-state mailings of 1680 letters each and 6 out-of-state directed to electronics , plastics , pharmaceutical , and business machine manufacturers , and to publishers . These totaled 6 , 768 pieces of correspondence . The 1960 advertising campaign brought a total of 239 inquiries ; 64 from media and 75 from direct mail . Two hundred and nineteen were received from 35 of our 50 United States and 11 came from foreign countries . New York led in the number of inquiries , followed by California , New Jersey , Massachusetts , and Pennsylvania . Among foreign countries responding were Germany , Canada , Brazil and India . Industrial promotion An important operation in soliciting industrial locations involves what we term `` Missionary calls by one of this Division industrial promotion specialists . These consist of visits , without previous announcement , on top officials of manufacturing concerns located in highly industrialized areas . More than 25 carefully selected cities were visited , including New York , Brooklyn , Long Island City , Newark , Elizabeth , Stamford , Waterbury , New Haven , Bridgeport , Boston , Cambridge , Worcester , and Waltham . Out of a total of 603 calls , 452 contacts were established with top executive personnel . We received 76 out-of-state visitors interested in investigating Rhode Island industrial advantages , and Industrial Division personnel made 55 out-of-state follow-up visits . Industrial conferences During 1960 , two important conferences were organized by the Development Council Industrial Division . In June , the Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce -- in conjunction with local trade associations , chambers of commerce , and bank officials -- sponsored a World Trade Conference at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel . Its purpose was to find ways of offsetting the United States ' declining balance of trade for 1958 and 1959 . Approximately 100 representatives of business attended this conclave and the R . I . Export Conference Committee later voted to continue the activity as an annual event . On October 8th of last year , the Industrial Division sponsored the Governor Conference on Industrial Development at the former Henry Barnard School . A comprehensive program devoted to the various phases of the development effort attracted 143 interested individuals . Morning sessions included addresses by Ward Miller , Jr . of the U . S . Dept . of Commerce . Richard Preston , executive director of the New Hampshire State Planning and Development Commission , and Edwin C . Kepler of General Electric Company . Workshop sessions in the afternoon featured development executives from Pennsylvania , Connecticut and Maine , and rounded out a rewarding program . In connection with this conference , a 64-page supplement was published in the October 2nd edition of The Providence Sunday Journal . Devoted to the improvement in business climate and increase in industrial construction in Rhode Island , it has proved a valuable mailing piece for this Division . More than 2000 copies have been sent out to prospective clients . Mailings and publications Other special mailings by the Industrial Division included copies of speeches delivered at the Governor Conference , letters and brochures to conferees at Med-Chemical Symposium at University of Rhode Island and letters and reprints of industrial advertisements to such organizations as Society of Industrial Realtors . 1184 copies of the R . I . Directory Of Manufacturers were distributed : 643 in-state and 541 out-of-state . The Industrial Division published , in 1960 , a new , attractive industrial brochure , `` Rhode Island -- Right For Industry , and prepared copy for a new edition of the Directory Of Manufacturers ( to be printed shortly ) , and for a new space catalogue . Additional promotional activities included organizing the dedication program for Operation Turnkey , the new automated post office , and a conference with representatives of Brown University , Providence College , and University of Rhode Island , and eight electronics concerns regarding the inauguration of a training program for electronics personnel . Planning division Stated in its simplest terms , the main job of the Planning Division is to plan for the future of the State of Rhode Island . The activities of the Planning Division are defined in considerable detail in the enabling act of the Development Council , which assigns to the agency both broad responsibilities and specific duties in the field of planning . Two years ago , the Institute of Public Administration issued an extremely comprehensive report entitled `` State-Local Relations In Metropolitan Rhode Island . As the result of an exhaustive review of the recommendations contained in this report , plus an analysis of our own enabling act , the Planning Division developed a number of basic planning objectives which caused a reorientation of its work program . These objectives are stated here because of their importance in understanding the current activities of the Planning Division . ( 1 ) First priority will be given to the preparation of a meaningful state guide plan to serve as a background for all other planning activities in the state . ( 2 ) Recognizing the truth of the statement by the Institute of Public Administration that `` Metropolian Planning ( in Rhode Island ) means , or should mean , state planning , the state guide plan will take into account the metropolitan nature of many of Rhode Island problems . ( 3 ) It will continue to be an objective of this division to encourage the acceptance of planning as a proper and continuing responsibility of local government . To this end , the community assistance program of the planning division will continue to be operated as a staff function to make available , on a shared cost basis , technical planning assistance to those communities in the state unable to maintain their own planning staff . ( 4 ) The planning division will take the initiative in encouraging planning cooperation at all levels of government ; mong the operating departments of the state ; etween the cities and towns of the state ; nd on a regional basis between the six New England states . ( 5 ) On the basis that all citizens of the state are entitled to benefit equally in the development of its resources , plans for the provision of essential services ( such as water ) will be based on need regardless of arbitrary political boundaries , within the framework of the state plan . ( 6 ) The state development budget will reflect the capital needs of all the state agencies and the priority of the projects in the budget will be based on the state plan . ( 7 ) In preparing the state guide plan , particular attention will be given means of strengthening the economy of the state through the development of industry and recreation . Functionally the planning division carries out four activities : long-range state planning , current state planning , local planning assistance ; nd the preparation of the state development budget . Long-range state planning The planning division has embarked on the most complete and comprehensive state planning program in the nation . The long-range aspects of this program are divided into four distinct phases : basic mapping , inventory , analysis and plan and policy formation . The work program , as it was originally proposed , was to take five years to complete . Recent events -- particularly the necessity of providing planning information for the statewide origin study of the Department of Public Works -- indicate that this schedule will have to be accelerated . The basic mapping phase of the program has been completed and the inventory phase is scheduled for completion July 1 , 1961 . Basic mapping Since accurate base maps are necessary for any planning program , the first step taken by the planning division to implement the long-range state plan has been to prepare two series of base maps -- one at a scale of 1 inch to a mile , and the second a series of 26 sheets at a scale of 1 inch to 2000 feet , covering the entire state . With these maps completed , the inventory phase of the plan has been started . Inventory With the aid of matching federal funds available under Section 701 of the Housing Act of 1954 as amended , the planning division began a one year program July 1 , 1960 to complete the inventory phase of the state planning program . This phase consists of four items : urban land use , rural land use , physical features and public utility service areas . Since the validity of all subsequent planning depends on the accuracy of the basic inventory information , great care is being taken that the inventory is as complete as possible . The urban land use study carried out by the planning division staff has consisted of identifying and mapping all urban land uses which are of significance to statewide planning . The rural land use study is being carried out under contract by the University of Rhode Island and identifies all agricultural land uses in the state by type of use . The mapping of important physical features such as slopes and types of soil and the collection of all available information pertaining to public utility service areas are being conducted as staff projects and , like the other two inventory projects , are scheduled for completion July 1 , 1961 . Analysis The collection of information is meaningless unless it is understood and used for a definite purpose . 
Special districts in Rhode island . It is not within the scope of this report to elaborate in any great detail upon special districts in Rhode Island . However , a word should be mentioned in regard to them as independent units of government . There are forty-seven special district governments in Rhode Island ( excluding two regional school districts , four housing authorities , and the Kent County Water Authority ) . These forty-seven special purpose governments have the authority to levy taxes , to borrow money , own property , sue and be sued , and in general to exercise normal corporate powers . Unlike cities and towns , however , they do not have to submit any financial statements to the state Bureau of Audits . It is not an exaggeration to say that the state government has little or no fiscal control over these units of government . In addition to the collection of service charges , the special districts levy annual property taxes of approximately $450 , 000 . Fiscal years in other states comparative data . A review of practices in other states regarding fiscal uniformity is pertinent to this report . Included in the findings are : 1 . Forty-six states , including Rhode Island , end their fiscal year on June 30 . The other four states end on varying dates : Alabama ( Sept . 30 ) , New York ( March 31 ) , Pennsylvania ( May 31 ) , and Texas ( August 31 ) . 2 . In sixteen states , the fiscal year ending of the cities ( June 30 ) is the same as that of the state : Alaska , Arizona , California , Delaware , Massachusetts , Montana , Nevada , New Mexico , North Carolina , North Dakota , Oklahoma , Oregon , Vermont , West Virginia , Wyoming , and Hawaii ) . 3 . In eleven states , the fiscal year of the cities ends on December 31 , while the state fiscal year ends on June 30 ( Arkansas , Colorado , Indiana , Kansas , New Hampshire , New Jersey , Ohio , South Dakota , Utah , Washington , and Wisconsin ) . 4 . In eight states whose fiscal years close on June 30 , a majority of their cities close their fiscal year on December 31 : :( Georgia , Iowa , Kentucky , Maine , Maryland , Minnesota , Virginia , and South Carolina ) . 5 . One state , Alabama , closes its fiscal year on September 30 , and all cities in the state , with one exception , also close fiscal years on September 30 . 6 . Mississippi closes its fiscal year on June 30 , while all of its cities close their fiscal years on September 30 . 7 . Pennsylvania closes its fiscal year on May 31 . All of its cities close their fiscal years on December 31 . The remaining twelve states have varying fiscal years for the state , city and local governments . However , only Illinois , Oregon , Louisiana and Rhode Island have a situation in which the sundry units of government vary widely in relation to fiscal uniformity . Fiscal uniformity : advantages and disadvantages advantages . An excellent summary of advantages concerning the uniform fiscal year and coordinated fiscal calendars was contained in a paper presented by a public finance authority recently . He listed among the values of fiscal uniformity : 1 . The uniform fiscal year requires compliance with common sense administration of local finances : adoption of the budget , or financial plan , in advance of spending . 2 . The uniform fiscal year ensures conformance with another common sense rule , that of having cash in the bank before checks are drawn . It enables towns to make more economical purchases and to take advantage of cash discounts . 3 . The uniform fiscal year promotes more careful budgeting and strengthens control over expenditures . By fixing the tax rate in advance of spending , upper limits are set on expenditures . 4 . The uniform fiscal year brings the town fiscal year into line with that of the schools , which expend the largest share of local disbursements . This greatly simplifies the town bookkeeping and financial reporting . 5 . The uniform fiscal year eliminates interest charges on money borrowed in the form of tax anticipation notes . Furthermore , tax collections not immediately needed for current expenditures may be invested in short-term treasury notes , augmenting the town miscellaneous revenues and reducing the tax levy . 6 . The uniform fiscal year facilitates inter-town comparison of revenues and expenditures . When towns have the same fiscal year it is relatively easy to make meaningful comparisons ; nd as the cost of local government increases , the demand for such comparison also increases . Towns having different fiscal years are difficult to compare . Of all advantages , probably none is more important than the elimination of tax anticipation notes . Borrowing in anticipation of current taxes and other revenues is a routine procedure of the majority of municipalities at all times . It may be by bank loans , sale of notes or warrants , or by the somewhat casual method of issuance and registration of warrants . In any event it is a form of borrowing which could be and should be rendered unnecessary . Its elimination would result in the saving of interest costs , heavy when short-term money rates are high , and in freedom from dependence on credit which is not always available when needed most . This type of borrowing can be reduced to a minimum if quarterly installment payment of taxes is instituted and the first payment placed near the opening of the fiscal year . Any approach toward such a system looks toward saving and security . It should be noted that there are other and equally important reasons for establishing meaningful intergovernmental reporting bases on a uniform fiscal year . Both the federal and state governments commence their fiscal years on July 1 . Both units of government contribute increasingly large sums of money to the several local governments in this state as indicated below : It has been said that when local government revenues were mostly produced locally from the property tax , the lack of a uniform fiscal year was no great handicap ; ut with the growth of state and federal fiscal aid , the emphasis on equalization , and the state-local sharing of responsibility for certain important functions , this is no longer true . The haphazard fiscal year calendar is an obstacle to the planning of clear and efficient state-local revenue and expenditure relationships . Disadvantages . Although there are many sound reasons for adopting uniform and coordinated fiscal years in Rhode Island , there are also certain difficulties encountered . These involve more the mechanics employed in adjusting to fiscal uniformity than they do actual disadvantages to the principle . One problem is a matter of shifting dates ; he other , is how to finance the transition . Little can be done about the changing of dates . This is an inherent part of adjusting fiscal calendars . It usually means a confused and disgruntled tax-paying public for a period of time . But cooperation and understanding between local officials and the citizenry help lessen this problem . The other problem is the matter of financing the transition period in the several cities and towns . This will be covered more fully later . It should be kept in mind that the ease or difficulty with which a town or city can convert to the proposed plan is directly dependent upon the financial condition of that town or city . Fortunately , there are no cities or towns in the state , with one or two possible exceptions that are in too difficult a position to finance the proposed change . Sacrifice will have to be made in some cases , but it is to the municipality advantage to finance the change-over for a short period of time rather than pay interest on tax anticipation notes indefinitely . Adjusting the fiscal calendars The advantages of a uniform fiscal year and well synchronized fiscal and tax collection calendars are sufficiently great for Rhode Island municipalities to exert effort to secure them . The type of program desired can be determined by the nature and extent of the adjustments needed . Two features are immediately evident . First , the present situation is too varied to be systematized by any single formula . Second , the shift to a uniform July 1 to June 30 fiscal year will , of itself , improve the tax collection calendars of the great majority of cities and towns . There are at least two problems to consider : one is a matter of adjusting the fiscal calendar ; he other is how to finance the adjustments when necessary . The latter matter is considered in detail in a later section . Twelve cities and towns in Rhode Island presently indicate some plans to establish a uniform and coordinated fiscal tax year calendar . Plans vary from the `` talking stage to establishing special committees to accomplish this end . What is important here is that many of the cities and towns recognize the need for improved fiscal practices and are taking the initiative to obtain them . An analysis of the fiscal tax collection year calendars throughout the state indicates that transition may not be as painful as is commonly thought . However , it must be stressed that much depends upon the financial condition of the individual cities and towns involved . The adjustments needed to establish a uniform and coordinated fiscal tax collection year calendar throughout Rhode Island , based on a July 1 to June 30 year , are shown below . No adjustment needed . Six cities and towns are presently on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and have coordinated their tax collection year with it . No change is required for these towns . These municipalities include : Barrington , Lincoln , Middletown , Newport , North Kingstown , and South Kingstown . Adjustment of fiscal year . One town and one city , Coventry and East Providence , require an adjustment of their fiscal year only . This change will automatically adjust their tax collection year calendar so as to make all tax installments due and payable in the fiscal year collectible within that year . Adjustment of tax collection year . Six cities and towns are now on a July 1 to June 30 fiscal year and will need only to adjust their tax collection year calendar to establish uniformity . These cities and towns include Bristol , Glocester , Pawtucket , Cumberland , Central Falls , and Woonsocket . Simultaneous adjustments . Two cities to be considered , Providence and Cranston , are an enigma . Both have excellent integration of their fiscal tax collection year calendars . However , neither of these two cities is on the desired July 1 to June 30 fiscal year . The adjustment to a uniform and coordinated fiscal period could be accomplished relatively easily for them . In that both cities end their fiscal years on September 30 , they could levy taxes for an interim period of nine months , commencing with September 30 and ending with June 30 . These three installment dates would be : October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 ( Providence ) and November 15 , February 16 and May 15 ( Cranston ) . Both would start their new fiscal year on July 1 . Their tax collection calendar could then be : July 25 , October 26 , January 26 , and April 25 , ( Providence ) ; nd August 15 , November 15 , February 17 , and May 15 , ( Cranston ) . Under this plan both Cranston and Providence would be on the uniform fiscal year but would still be using the same installment periods . Varying adjustments . The remaining twenty-three towns have fiscal years which end prior to June 30 . All of these towns will require adjustments of both their fiscal and tax collection years . Assuming an adjustment to the July 1 to June 30 fiscal year , the required adjustment of the tax collection years and the towns involved are shown in Table 3 . Methods of financing adjustments Aside from the matter of adjusting the fiscal and tax calendars , there is the problem of financing the adjustment when this is necessary . It should be emphasized strongly that adjustments in fiscal dates or adoption of interim budgets do not necessarily mean financing over and above normal governmental requirements . In many communities there is simply no financial problem ; t is only a matter of adjusting accounting methods , careful fiscal planning and management , or some like combination of techniques . In other municipalities the difficulties in overcoming the financial burden have been sufficiently great to dishearten proponents of fiscal year changes . Fortunately , such cases in Rhode Island are more the exception than the rule . As shown earlier in Table 1 , the several cities and towns use widely varied fiscal and tax collection calendars . In addition , no two Rhode Island communities are identical in relation to their over-all financial condition . These factors practically insure that no single financing formula is feasible ; ach situation must be studied and a plan developed that takes into consideration such factors as the effect of the existing and prospective tax calendars , the financial condition of the treasuries , and the length of the transition interval . Suitable plans range from those that are very easy to develop to those that are difficult to formulate and require borrowing ranging from short-term serial notes to long-term bonds . The financial problem , where it exists , usually stems from the adoption of a budget for the transitional or adjustment period . For those communities which have financial difficulties in effecting adjustments , there are a number of alternatives any one of which alone , or in combination with others , would minimize if not even eliminate the problem . 
Rhode Island Heritage Week proclamation by John A . Notte , Jr . , governor The theme of Rhode Island Heritage Week for 1961 will be `` Independence and Union . It commemorates the 185th anniversary of Rhode Island Independence when , upon May 4 , 1776 , the General Assembly , by its action , established the first free republic in the New World . As this year marks the centennial of the beginning of the Civil War , this fact is being commemorated with several exhibits throughout the State , but most of all paying tribute to the first Rhode Island Volunteers who rushed to the defense of the City of Washington , putting at the disposal of President Lincoln the only fully equipped and best trained regiment at this time . On April 30 , ceremonies commemorating the departure of these volunteers will take place at 1 : 00 P . M . at the Dexter Training Grounds in Providence . The Independence Day celebration will be properly observed with a big military and civic parade from West Warwick to the Greene Homestead in Anthony ; nd now , therefore , do I , John A . Notte , Jr . , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of april 29th to may 7th , 1961 , as Rhode Island Heritage Week , advising our citizens that throughout this week many historic houses and beautiful gardens will be open to visitors as well as industrial plants , craft shops , museums and libraries and I earnestly urge all to take advantage of these opportunities to see as many of these places as they can during this outstanding week . In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and on Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth . Governor Armed Forces Day Proclamation by John A . Notte , Jr . , Governor The year 1961 marks the fourteenth anniversary of the unification of our Armed Forces under the National Security Act of 1947 . National defense , like the continuing search for peace with freedom and justice for all , is `` everybody business . Our investment in this effort , the greatest in our Nation history , reflects our determination to ensure the peace and the future of freedom . It is a sound investment . As the President has said , `` only when our arms are sufficient beyond doubt can we be certain that they will never be employed . Armed Forces Day is the annual report on this investment , a public presentation designed to give our own people , and the people of other lands who stand with us for peace with freedom and justice , the best possible opportunity to see and understand what we have and why we have it . It is the purpose of Armed Forces Day to give Americans an opportunity to honor men of the Armed Forces , those who have made the supreme sacrifice , those who remain to preserve our security . Freedom depends upon them ; ow , therefore , do I , John A . Notte , Jr . , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Saturday , May 20th , 1961 , as Armed Forces Day , reminding our citizens that we should rededicate ourselves to our Nation , respecting the uniforms as the guardians of our precious liberty . In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 17th day of May , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . Governor National Maritime Day proclamation by John A . Notte , Jr . , Governor The President of the United States , pursuant to a Joint Resolution of Congress , has issued a proclamation each year since 1933 declaring May 22nd to be National Maritime Day . This date in 1819 marked the sailing of the S . S . `` Savannah from Savannah , Georgia , for Liverpool . This voyage was the first successful crossing of the Atlantic under steam propulsion . The day is now appropriately set aside to honor the American men and women who have contributed to the success of our merchant marine fleet in peace and war . The Merchant Marine is the `` Fourth Arm of Defense , for a strong and effective American Merchant Marine is essential to the economy and security of our Nation . Through trade and travel across the seas the American Merchant Marine is carrying out its historic mission of linking the United States of America with friendly nations across the seas ; nd now , therefore , do I , John A . Notte , Jr . , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Monday , May 22nd , 1961 , as National Maritime Day , reminding our citizens that American Merchant ships and American seamen are ready at all times to serve our Nation in the cause of freedom and justice . In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 20th day of April , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-fifth . Governor Miss Rhode Island Pageant Week proclamation by John A . Notte , Jr . , Governor The Miss Rhode Island Pageant is sponsored by the Rhode Island Junior Chamber of Commerce as a part of the nation-wide search for the typical American girl -- a Miss America from Rhode Island . This is an official preliminary contest of the Miss America Pageant held each September in Atlantic City . The ideal girl -- possessed of talent , poise , intelligence , personality and beauty of face and figure -- is chosen each year to represent Rhode Island . Many hours are given free by the Jaycees to make this and all local pageants outstanding events . Proceeds realized from these pageants are used by the Jaycees to help support their various youth , health , welfare and community betterment activities throughout the state . Miss Sally May Saabye , ( Miss Rhode Island 1960 ) says that within a short time -- on June 17th -- her reign will come to an end . She hopes that all will support the contestants from our own community by attending our Pageants and the State Pageant June 17 ; nd now , therefore , do I , John A . Notte , Jr . , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of June 11th to 17th , 1961 , as Miss Rhode Island Pageant Week , with deep appreciation to the Jaycees , local and statewide , for the presentation of their beautiful Pageants and the encouragement of all Rhode Island girls to participate . In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 11th day of June , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . Governor United Nations Day proclamation by John A . Notte , Jr . , governor For the purpose of maintaining international peace and promoting the advancement of all people , the United States of America joined in founding the United Nations . The United Nations Charter sets forth standards which , if adhered to , will promote peace and justice throughout the world . It is extremely important for each American to realize that the theme `` The United Nations Is Your Business applies to him personally . The world desperately needs the United Nations . United Nations Day is the birthday of the United Nations , mankind noblest attempt to establish lasting peace with justice ; nd now , therefore , do I , John A . Notte , Jr . , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Tuesday , October 24th , 1961 , as United Nations day , calling upon all our citizens to engage in appropriate observances , demonstrating faith in the United Nations and thereby contributing to a better understanding of the aims of the United Nations throughout the land . In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 5th day of July , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . Governor The State Ballet of Rhode Island Week proclamation by John A . Notte , Jr . , Governor The ballet originated in Italy about 1450 . At that time it was a series of sophisticated social dances whose steps were often combined with other steps devised by the choreographer . Ballet flowered in Italy during the next hundred years , and about 1550 was carried to France when the Italian princess , Catherine De Medicis , married the King of France . The most famous ballet of that time was called Ballet Comique De La Reine ( 1581 ) . Dances alternated with sung or spoken verses . Ballets were used in opera from its beginning . They were placed either in the middle of the acts or in the intermissions . The State Ballet of Rhode Island , the first incorporated group , was formed for the purpose of extending knowledge of the art of ballet in the Community , to promote interest in ballet performances , to contribute to the cultural life of the State , and to provide opportunity for gifted dance students who , for one reason or another , are unable to pursue a career and to develop others for the professional state ; nd now , therefore , do I , John A . Notte , Jr . , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of Monday , November 13 , 1961 , as the State Ballet of Rhode Island Week , requesting all Rhode Islanders to give special attention to this unusual event which should contribute to the cultural life of the State . In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 23d day of October , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one , and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . Governor Proclamation Thanksgiving Day by John A . Notte , Jr . , Governor As another Thanksgiving draws near , let us take time out from the often hectic pace of our lives to try and recapture the feelings that filled the hearts of the Pilgrims on the first Thanksgiving . The Pilgrims gathered to thank the Lord for His benevolence during their first year in the new land . They had been through trying times , but their faith in the Almighty had given them the courage and the strength to meet and overcome the many problems and difficulties that were the price they had to pay for freedom . And as the Pilgrims bowed their heads in humble gratitude , they shared another feeling -- the anticipation of what the future held for them and their posterity . They could not guess that from their concepts of liberty and freedom would some day be born a new nation that for years would be the symbol of hope to the oppressed countries of the world . They simply turned to God filled with gratitude and faith . We who are living today may learn a valuable lesson from those who celebrated the first Thanksgiving Day . The Lord has shown time and time again His love for us . We have only to compare the liberty and high standard of living we enjoy in this great country with the oppression and frugality of other nations to realize with humble gratitude that God Providence has been with us since the very beginning of our country . And yet , accompanying our gratitude is the realization that we are living in a crucial time . With world peace constantly being threatened , most of us regard the future skeptically , and even with fear . It is at this time that we should imitate the Pilgrims by accompanying our prayers of thanks with the conviction that we shall continue to be in dire need for the Lord protection in the future , if we are to have peace ; ow , therefore , do I , John A . Notte , Jr . , governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim Thursday , November 23rd , 1961 , as Thanksgiving Day , And so , let us remember on this day not only to thank the Almighty Who gave hope and courage to the Pilgrims , but also to place our trust in Him that He will continue to protect us in the future as He has in the past . In testimony whereof , I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of November , in the year of Our Lord , one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and of Independence , the one hundred and eighty-sixth . John A . Notte Jr . , Governor 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Act of July 3 , 1952 ( 66 Stat . 328 ) as amended ( 42 U . S . C . 1952-1958 ) , is further amended to read as follows : Section 1 . In view of the increasing shortage of usable surface and ground water in many parts of the Nation and the importance of finding new sources of supply to meet its present and future water needs , it is the policy of the Congress to provide for the development of practicable low-cost means for the large-scale production of water of a quality suitable for municipal , industrial , agricultural , and other beneficial consumptive uses from saline water , and for studies and research related thereto . As used in this Act , the term ' saline water ' includes sea water , brackish water , and other mineralized or chemically charged water , and the term ' United States ' extends to and includes the District of Columbia , the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico , and the territories and possessions of the United States . Sec . 2 . In order to accomplish the purposes of this Act , the Secretary of the Interior shall -- ( A ) conduct , encourage , and promote fundamental scientific research and basic studies to develop the best and most economical processes and methods for converting saline water into water suitable for beneficial consumptive purposes ; B ) conduct engineering research and technical development work to determine , by laboratory and pilot plant testing , the results of the research and studies aforesaid in order to develop processes and plant designs to the point where they can be demonstrated on a large and practical scale ; C ) recommend to the Congress from time to time authorization for construction and operation , or for participation in the construction and operation , of a demonstration plant for any process which he determines , on the basis of subsections ( A ) and ( B ) above , has great promise of accomplishing the purposes of this Act , such recommendation to be accompanied by a report on the size , location , and cost of the proposed plant and the engineering and economic details with respect thereto ; D ) study methods for the recovery and marketing of commercially valuable byproducts resulting from the conversion of saline water ; nd ( E ) undertake economic studies and surveys to determine present and prospective costs of producing water for beneficial consumptive purposes in various parts of the United States by the leading saline water processes as compared with other standard methods . Sec . 3 . In carrying out his functions under Section 2 of this Act , the Secretary may -- ( A ) acquire the services of chemists , physicists , engineers , and other personnel by contract or otherwise ; B ) enter into contracts with educational institutions , scientific organizations , and industrial and engineering firms ; C ) make research and training grants ; D ) utilize the facilities of Federal scientific laboratories ; E ) establish and operate necessary facilities and test sites at which to carry on the continuous research , testing , development , and programing necessary to effectuate the purposes of this Act ; F ) acquire secret processes , technical data , inventions , patent applications , patents , licenses , land and interests in land ( including water rights ) , plants and facilities , and other property or rights by purchase , license , lease , or donation ; G ) assemble and maintain pertinent and current scientific literature , both domestic and foreign , and issue bibliographical data with respect thereto ; H ) cause on-site inspections to be made of promising projects , domestic and foreign , and , in the case of projects located in the United States , cooperate and participate in their development in instances in which the purposes of this Act will be served thereby ; I ) foster and participate in regional , national , and international conferences relating to saline water conversion ; J ) coordinate , correlate , and publish information with a view to advancing the development of low-cost saline water conversion projects ; nd ( K ) cooperate with other Federal departments and agencies , with State and local departments , agencies , and instrumentalities , and with interested persons , firms , institutions , and organizations . Sec . 4 . ( A ) Research and development activities undertaken by the Secretary shall be coordinated or conducted jointly with the Department of Defense to the end that developments under this Act which are primarily of a civil nature will contribute to the defense of the Nation and that developments which are primarily of a military nature will , to the greatest practicable extent compatible with military and security requirements , be available to advance the purposes of this Act and to strengthen the civil economy of the Nation . The fullest cooperation by and with Atomic Energy Commission , the Department of Health , Education , and Welfare , the Department of State , and other concerned agencies shall also be carried out in the interest of achieving the objectives of this Act . ( B ) All research within the United States contracted for , sponsored , cosponsored , or authorized under authority of this Act , shall be provided for in such manner that all information , uses , products , processes , patents , and other developments resulting from such research developed by Government expenditure will ( with such exceptions and limitations , if any , as the Secretary may find to be necessary in the interest of national defense ) be available to the general public . This subsection shall not be so construed as to deprive the owner of any background patent relating thereto of such rights as he may have thereunder . Sec . 5 . ( A ) The Secretary may dispose of water and byproducts resulting from his operations under this Act . All moneys received from dispositions under this section shall be paid into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts ) . ( B ) Nothing in the Act shall be construed to alter existing law with respect to the ownership and control of water . Sec . 6 . The Secretary shall make reports to the President and the Congress at the beginning of each regular session of the action taken or instituted by him under the provisions of this Act and of prospective action during the ensuing year . Sec . 7 . The Secretary of the Interior may issue rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Act . Sec . 8 . There are authorized to be appropriated such sums , to remain available until expended , as may be necessary , but not more than $75 , 000 , 000 in all , ( A ) to carry out the provisions of this Act during the fiscal years 1962 to 1967 , inclusive ; B ) to finance , for not more than two years beyond the end of said period , such grants , contracts , cooperative agreements , and studies as may theretofore have been undertaken pursuant to this Act ; nd ( C ) to finance , for not more than three years beyond the end of said period , such activities as are required to correlate , coordinate , and round out the results of studies and research undertaken pursuant to this Act : Provided , That funds available in any one year for research and development may , subject to the approval of the Secretary of State to assure that such activities are consistent with the foreign policy objectives of the United States , be expended in cooperation with public or private agencies in foreign countries in the development of processes useful to the program in the United States : And provided further , That every such contract or agreement made with any public or private agency in a foreign country shall contain provisions effective to insure that the results or information developed in connection therewith shall be available without cost to the United States for the use of the United States throughout the world and for the use of the general public within the United States . Sec . 2 . Section 4 of the joint resolution of September 2 , 1958 ( 72 Stat . 1707 ; 2 U . S . C . 1958 ( ) ) , is hereby amended to read : The authority of the Secretary of the Interior under this joint resolution to construct , operate , and maintain demonstration plants shall terminate upon the expiration of twelve years after the date on which this joint resolution is approved . Upon the expiration of a period deemed adequate for demonstration purposes for each plant , but not to exceed such twelve-year period , the Secretary shall proceed as promptly as practicable to dispose of any plants so constructed by sale to the highest bidder , or as may otherwise be directed by Act of Congress . Upon such sale , there shall be returned to any State or public agency which has contributed financial assistance under Section 3 of this joint resolution a proper share of the net proceeds of the sale . Approved September 22 , 1961 . Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to make or cause to be made a study covering -- ( 1 ) the causes of injuries and health hazards in Metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) ; 2 ) the relative effectiveness of voluntary versus mandatory reporting of accident statistics ; 3 ) the relative contribution to safety of inspection programs embodying -- ( A ) right-of-entry only and ( B ) right-of-entry plus enforcement authority ; 4 ) the effectiveness of health and safety education and training ; 5 ) the magnitude of effort and costs of each of these possible phases of an effective safety program for metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) ; nd ( 6 ) the scope and adequacy of State mine-safety laws applicable to such mines and the enforcement of such laws . Sec . 2 . ( A ) The Secretary of the Interior or any duly authorized representative shall be entitled to admission to , and to require reports from the operator of , any metal or nonmetallic mine which is in a State ( excluding any coal or lignite mine ) , the products of which regularly enter commerce or the operations of which substantially affect commerce , for the purpose of gathering data and information necessary for the study authorized in the first section of this Act . ( B ) As used in this section -- ( 1 ) the term `` State includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any possession of the United States ; nd ( 2 ) the term `` commerce means commerce between any State and any place outside thereof , or between points within the same State but through any place outside thereof . Sec . 3 . The Secretary of the Interior shall submit a report of his findings , together with recommendations for an effective safety program for metal and nonmetallic mines ( excluding coal and lignite mines ) based upon such findings , to the Congress not more than two years after the date of enactment of this Act . Approved September 26 , 1961 . Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled , That the Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to establish and maintain a program of stabilization payments to small domestic producers of lead and zinc ores and concentrates in order to stabilize the mining of lead and zinc by small domestic producers on public , Indian , and other lands as provided in this Act . Sec . 2 . ( A ) Subject to the limitations of this Act , the Secretary shall make stabilization payments to small domestic producers upon presentation of evidence satisfactory to him of their status as such producers and of the sale by them of newly mined ores , or concentrates produced therefrom , as provided in this Act . Payments shall be made only with respect to the metal content as determined by assay . ( B ) Such payments shall be made to small domestic producers of lead as long as the market price for common lead at New York , New York , as determined by the Secretary , is below 14-1 cents per pound , and such payments shall be 75 per centum of the difference between 14-1 cents per pound and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred as determined by the Secretary . ( C ) Such payments shall be made to small domestic producers of zinc as long as the market price for prime western zinc at East Saint Louis , Illinois , as determined by the Secretary , is below 14-1 cents per pound , and such payments shall be 55 per centum of the difference between 14-1 cents per pound and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred as determined by the Secretary . ( D ) The maximum amount of payments which may be made pursuant to this Act on account of sales of newly mined ores or concentrates produced therefrom made during the calendar year 1962 shall not exceed $4 , 500 , 000 ; he maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1963 shall not exceed $4 , 500 , 000 ; he maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1964 shall not exceed $4 , 000 , 000 ; nd the maximum amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the calendar year 1965 shall not exceed $3 , 500 , 000 . 
In the same period , 431 presentations by members of the staff were made to local , national , and international medical groups . 3 . Education : A . The education function of the Institute is carried on by the staff in the departments of pathology and its consultants . During fiscal year 1959 , six courses were conducted : Forensic Pathology , Application of Histochemistry to Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Ophthalmic Pathology , Pathology of the Oral Regions , and a Cardiovasculatory Pathology Seminar . During fiscal year 1960 , seven courses were conducted : Application of Histochemistry to Pathology , Forensic Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Pathology of the Oral Regions , Ophthalmic Pathology , Forensic Sciences Symposium , and Orthopedic Pathology . From 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , six courses were conducted : Workshop in Resident Training in Pathology , Pathology of Diseases of Laboratory Animals , Application of Histochemistry of Pathology , Orthopedic Pathology , Forensic Sciences Symposium , and Forensic Pathology . B . During fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 139 military and civilian students who came to the Institute for varying periods of special instruction . 4 . Research : The Institute is engaged in an extensive program of medico-military scientific research in both morphological and experimental pathology . Among the specific areas of concentration in which the staff is engaged , are such projects as biological and biochemical studies of the effects of microwaves ; tudy of motor end plates in man and animals ; nvestigation of respiratory diseases of laboratory animals ; etabolic responses to reduced oxygen tension ; europathology of nuclear and cosmic radiation ; arcinoma of prostate ; valuation of histochemical techniques ; nd hip dysplasia in dogs . There has been an increase in cooperative research with other Federal agencies and civilian institutions . During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , additional research affiliations were effected with the U . S . Army Medical Research and Development Command to conduct research in procedures for quantitative electron microscopy , and for the study of biophysical and biological studies of the structure and function of ocular tissue . Also , the Defense Atomic Support Agency sponsored a long-range study at this Institute on the response of massive suspension cultures of mammalian cells to acute radiation . Other scientific agencies , both Federal and civilian , supported studies in quantitative electron microscopical approach to microchemistry and microcytochemistry ; he investigation of the relationship of diphosphopyridine nucleotide synthesizine enzyme to tumor growth ; orphological study and classification of leukemia and lymphoma cases in animals ; nd the study of structural changes in M . leprae and other mycobacteria . Medical Illustration Service 1 . The Medical Illustration Service is responsible for the collection , publication , exhibition , and file of medical illustration material of medico-military importance to the Armed Forces . In addition to maintaining a permanent central file of illustrations of diseases , wounds , and injuries of military importance , it provides facilities for clinical photography , photomicrography , and medical arts , and operates a printing plant , by permission of Congressional Committee , for publication of an `` Atlas of Tumor Pathology . It also maintains shops for the design and fabrication of exhibits , training aids and instruments and libraries for the loan of films and teaching lantern slide sets . 2 . During this period , a total of 762 exhibits were presented at 442 medical and scientific meetings . Of these exhibits , 154 were newly constructed . Twenty-nine exhibits received awards . 3 . Visual and operable training aids developed by the Medical Illustration Service , were used in support of Army Medical Service mass casualty exercises . Members of the Medical Illustration Service lectured and conducted demonstrations on the use of training aids to military personnel and various civilian medical organizations . Demonstrations of new and projected training aids were conducted at the Medical Service Instructor Conference , Brooke Army Medical Center , Texas . 4 . In support of the emphasis placed by the Department of Defense on instruction in emergency medical care , the Medical Illustration Service developed casualty simulation kits and rescue breathing manikins which are being field tested ; nd overhead projector transparency sets on the subjects of Military Sanitation : First Aid For Soldiers ; andaging And Splinting ; he Emergency Medical Treatment Unit , Phase 1 ; nd Emergency War Surgery in support of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) Handbook . Fifty lantern slide teaching sets on the subject of `` Emergency War Surgery ( NATO ) were assembled and distributed to the Medical Military Services of foreign Governments associated with NATO and South-East Asia Treaty Organization . The British and Canadian Liaison Officers , as well as Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization , the American Red Cross , and similar interested organizations were informed from time to time as training aids were developed . 5 . Nine veterinary lantern slide teaching sets were developed and distributed , and lantern slide teaching sets on 21 pathology subjects were added to the loan library of the Medical Illustration Service . Illustrations were prepared for 11 Department of the Army manuals and one Graphic Training Aid . Sixteen lantern slide sets were loaned to the Government of India and eight sets were forwarded to the U . S . Embassy , Managua , Nicaragua for the Educational Exchange Program . The Senate Subcommittee on Reorganization and International Organizations was provided samples of visual aids on first aid and personal health produced by the Medical Illustration Service . 6 . Six fascicles ( 10 , 000 copies each ) of the `` Atlas Of Tumor Pathology were completed during the period of this report . The American Registry Of Pathology This consists of 25 individual registries , two of which were added during fiscal years 1959-1960 ( The Registry Of Forensic Pathology and The Testicular Tumor Registry ) . These registries are sponsored by 18 national medical , dental , and veterinary societies and have as their mission the assembling of selected cases of interest to military medicine and of establishing through the mechanism of follow-up of living patients the natural history of various diseases of military-medical importance . The American Registry Of Pathology operates as a cooperative enterprise in medical research and education between the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and the civilian medical profession on a national and international basis , under such conditions as may be agreed upon between the National Research Council and The Surgeons General of the Army , Navy , and Air Force . The staff utilized the collected material in these registries for numerous lectures to national and international meetings , exhibits , and published studies . During the period of this report , 37 , 470 new cases were entered into the various registries . These were selected carefully and included not only detailed clinical information but adequate pathology of value for research and educational purposes . In this same period , six new fascicles of the Atlas Of Tumor Pathology were published and distributed to medical centers world-wide . There were 54 , 320 copies of fascicles sold and 642 copies distributed free during this period . Forty-five new Clinico-pathologic Conferences were prepared , bringing the total to 61 available for loan distribution . Nine new teaching Clinico-pathologic Conference sets were prepared , which makes a total of 70 types of teaching sets for loan . During this period , 7 , 827 teaching sets were distributed on loan . The Clinico-pathologic Conferences have been acknowledged as of great value and in consequent great demand by the small isolated military hospitals . The demand for teaching sets continues unabated since they provide the means for the military physicians to review the pathology of selected disease processes or organ systems for review of basic sciences and correlation of clinical physiological behavior with structural changes . The Medical Museum In fiscal year 1959 , the Medical Museum was moved to Chase Hall , a temporary building on Independence Avenue at Ninth Street , Southwest , and continued to display to the public the achievements of the Armed Forces Medical Services . During the period of this report , 63 panel exhibits depicting the latest developments in medical research were displayed . Of the 375 exhibits ( of all types ) shown , 161 were new or refurbished . Of the 885 specimens newly mounted or refurbished , 254 were prepared for other agencies . Eighty-five specimens were loaned for study purposes . An exhibit , `` Macropathology -- An Ancient Art , A New Science , was presented at the annual meeting of the American Medical Association . A three-dimensional exhibit depicting `` A Century Of Naval Medicine was formally presented to The Director by George S . Squibb , great-grandson of the founder of E . R . Squibb and Sons , for permanent display in the Museum . Space was provided for short-time guest medical exhibits , and the Museum collected new accessions of microscopes , medical , surgical , and diagnostic instruments , uniform , and similar items of historical medico-military significance . During the period , the laboratory rendered centralized macropathological service to qualified requesters . Specimens were mounted for military installations , governmental agencies , and medical schools . Three hundred five copies of the Manual Of Macropathological Techniques were distributed . Thirty-five military and civilian students received laboratory training . During fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 795 , 586 visitors to the Museum . During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961 , the Medical Museum was required to move to Temporary Building `` S on the Mall from Chase Hall . Throughout the period and during the movement operation , the Museum continued its functional support of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology . Armed Forces Medical Publication Agency The Armed Forces Medical Publication Agency , established in 1949 , has published , since January 1950 , The United States Armed Forces Medical Journal as a triservice publication to furnish material of professional interest to Medical Department officers of the three military services . Its supplement , The Medical Technicians Bulletin , supplied similar material to enlisted medical personnel . These publications replaced the U . S . Naval Medical Bulletin , published continuously from 1907 through 1959 , as well as the Navy Hospital Corps Quarterly and the Bulletin of the U . S . Army Medical Department , published from 1922 to 1949 . In addition , their establishment made it unnecessary to begin publication of a contemplated Air Force medical bulletin . Estimated annual savings resulting from publication of the Journal and Bulletin on a triservice basis , as compared with the cost of producing separate periodicals for each service , were between $65 , 000 and $70 , 000 . Additionally , on the many ships at sea and in the smaller naval stations , the availability of the Journal removed the necessity of subscribing to several additional journals of civilian origin over and above the quantity now authorized , in order to provide any reasonably comparable coverage . From 1 July 1958 to 30 June 1960 , 24 numbers of the Journal and nine of the Bulletin were published . Each Journal contained articles of professional and clinical interest , and departments devoted to military medical news , reviews of new books , and other features of interest to officers of the medical services . The Council on National Defense of the American Medical Association contributed a brief article to each issue entitled , `` This Is Your A . M . A . . Beginning with the October 1959 issue of the Journal , the method of production of copy for photo-offset reproduction was changed from varityping to hot typesetting . This resulted in an improved appearance , but was followed by an increase in printing cost that necessitated the institution of major economies to keep within the total of allocated funds . The use of 100 instead of 140 substance paper plus the adoption of side stapling beginning with the May 1960 issue reduced costs sufficiently to allow completion of the fiscal year with nearly $4 , 000 in unexpended funds . Two special issues were published , one for November 1959 on Space Medicine , the other the Tenth Anniversary issue for January 1960 . The February 1960 issue marked the reinstitution of the section entitled , `` The Medical Officer Writes . Replacing the discontinued Medical Technicians Bulletin , publication of which was suspended with the November-December 1959 issue , a section called `` Technical Notes was inaugurated on a bimonthly basis beginning with the April 1960 issue . Occasional features were published on historical medicine , special reports , bibliography , and `` Collector Items . In May 1960 , the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology began a series of articles on the `` Medical Museum , and in June , the Institute started contributing a regular monthly `` Case For Diagnosis . The Institute also planned to furnish a regular series of articles , beginning in the fall of 1960 , on its more significant Scientific Exhibits . The Armed Forces Epidemiological Board agreed to submit each month a report for one of its 12 commissions , so that each commission will report once a year on some phase of its work calculated to be of particular interest and value to medical officers of the Armed Forces . The first report in this continuing series appeared in the September 1960 issue of the Journal . 
Another recent achievement was the successful development of a method for the complete combustion in a bomb calorimeter of a metal in fluorine when the product is relatively non-volatile . This work gave a heat of formation of aluminum fluoride which closely substantiates a value which had been determined by a less direct method , and raises this property to 15 percent above that accepted a few years ago . Similar measurements are being initiated to resolve a large discrepancy in the heat of formation of another important combustion product , beryllium fluoride . The development and testing of new apparatus to measure other properties is nearing completion . In one of these , an exploding-wire device to study systems thermodynamically up to 6 , 000 Af and 100 atmospheres pressure , a major goal was achieved . The accuracy of measuring the total electrical energy entering an exploding wire during a few microseconds was verified when two independent types of comparison with the heat energy produced had an uncertainty of less than 2 percent . This agreement is considered very good for such short time intervals . The method of calibration employs a fixed resistance element as a calorimeter . The element is inserted in the discharge circuit in place of the exploding wire , and the calorimetric heating of the element is measured with high accuracy . This is used as a reference for comparing the ohmic heating and the electrical energy obtained from the measured current through the element and the measured voltage across the element . A high-speed shutter has been developed in order to permit photographic observation of any portion of the electrical wire explosion . The shutter consists of two parts : a fast-opening part and a fast-closing part . Using Edgerton method , the fast-closing action is obtained from the blackening of a window by exploding a series of parallel lead wires . The fast-opening of the shutter consists of a piece of aluminum foil ( approximately Af ) placed directly in front of the camera lens so that no light may pass into the camera . The opening action is obtained when a capacitor , charged to high voltage , is suddenly discharged through the foil . During the discharge the magnetic forces set up by the passage of current cause the edges of the foil to roll inward toward its center line , thus allowing light to pass into the camera . Experiments have shown that the shutter is 75 percent open in about 60-80 microseconds . The shutter aperture may be made larger or smaller by changing the foil area and adjusting the electrical energy input to the foil . Laboratory measurements of interstellar radio spectra . Besides the well-known hydrogen line at 21 cm wavelength , the spectra of extraterrestrial radio sources may contain sharp lines characteristic of other atoms , ions , and small molecules . The detection and study of such line spectra would add considerably to present information on interstellar gas clouds and , perhaps , planetary atmospheres . Among the most likely producers of detectable radio line spectra are the light diatomic hydrides OH and CH ; omewhat less likely sources are the heavier hydrides SH , SiH , and Aj . Very small concentrations of these hydrides should be detectable ; n interstellar gas , concentrations as low as Af molecules per Af may be sufficient , as compared to the Af hydrogen atom Af required for detection of the 21-cm line . High sensitivity in radio telescopes is achieved by reducing the bandwidth of the receiver ; herefore , only with precise foreknowledge of the line frequencies is an astronomical search for the radio spectra of these molecules feasible . To secure precise measurements of these frequencies , a research program in free radical microwave spectroscopy has been started . Since conventional methods are insensitive at the low frequencies of these molecular transitions , the paramagnetic resonance method is being used instead . This involves the application of a strong magnetic field to the radical vapor , which shifts the low-frequency spectra to a conveniently high microwave range , where they may be measured with optimum sensitivity . The first diatomic hydride investigated by the paramagnetic resonance method was the OH radical . Results of this experiment include the frequencies of the two strong spectral lines by which OH may be identified in interstellar gas ; he frequencies are 1665 . 32 and 1667 . 36 Af , with an uncertainty of 0 . 10 Af . Success in observing these spectral lines has so far , apparently , been confined to the laboratory ; xtraterrestrial observations have yet to be reported . Preparations are being made for similar experiments on CH and SH radicals . Low temperature thermometry . The Bureau is pursuing an active program to provide a temperature scale and thermometer calibration services in the range 1 . 5 to 20 Af . The efforts and accomplishments fall into three main categories : absolute thermometry based upon the velocity of sound in helium gas , secondary thermometry involving principally studies of the behavior of germanium resistors , and helium-4 vapor-pressure measurements ( see p . 144 ) . Acoustical interferometer . An acoustical interferometer has been constructed and used , with helium gas as the thermometric fluid , to measure temperatures near 4 . 2 and 2 . 1 Af . Such an interferometer provides a means of absolute temperature measurement , and may be used as an alternative to the gas thermometer . When values of temperature derived with this instrument were compared with the accepted values associated with liquid helium-4 vapor pressures , differences of about 10 and 7 millidegrees respectively were found . This result is preliminary , and work is continuing . Resistance thermometers . Carbon resistors and impurity-doped germanium resistors have been investigated for use as precision secondary thermometers in the liquid helium temperature region . Several germanium resistors have been thermally cycled from 300 to 4 . 2 Af and their resistances have been found to be reproducible within 1 millidegree when temperatures were derived from a vapor pressure thermometer whose tubing is jacketed through most of the liquid helium . Preliminary calibrations of the resistors have been made from 4 . 21 to 2 . 16 Af at every 0 . 1 Af . The estimated standard deviations of the data for two of the resistors were 1 millidegree ; nd for the third resistor , 3 . 3 millidegrees . Vapor pressure method . The reproducibilities of helium vapor-pressure thermometers have been investigated in conjunction with a `` constant temperature liquid helium bath from 4 . 2 to 1 . 8 Af . Surface temperature gradients have been found to exist in liquid helium baths contained in 15- and 25-liter metallic storage dewars . The gradient was about one half of a millidegree at 4 . 2 Af but increased to several millidegrees for bath temperatures slightly greater than the **yl point . A hydrostatic head correction has been neither necessary nor applicable in the determination of vapor pressures or temperatures for the bulk liquid helium . However , the surface temperature gradient can produce erroneous vapor-pressure measurements for the bulk liquid helium unless precautions are taken to isolate the tube ( which passes through the surface to the vapor pressure bulb ) from the liquid helium surface . It has also been observed , in helium 2 , that large discrepancies can exist between surface vapor pressures and those pressures measured by a vapor pressure thermometer . This has been attributed to helium film flow in the vapor pressure thermometer . In this case also the design of the thermometer can be modified to reduce the helium film flow . Pressure transducer for pvt measurements . Precise pressure-volume-temperature measurements on corrosive gases are dependent on a sensitive yet rugged pressure transducer . A prototype which fulfills the requirements was developed and thoroughly tested . The transducer is a null-type instrument and employs a stretched diaphragm , 0 . 001 in . thick and 1 in . in diameter . A small pressure unbalance displaces the diaphragm and changes the capacitance between the diaphragm and an electrically insulated plate spaced 0 . 001 in . apart ( for Af ) . Spherical concave backing surfaces support the diaphragm when excessive pressures are applied and prevent the stresses within the diaphragm from exceeding the elastic limit . Over a temperature range from 25 to 200 Af and at pressures up to 250 atm , an overload of 300 psi , applied for a period of one day , results in an uncertainty in the pressure of , at most , one millimeter of mercury . Transport properties of air . A 6-year study of the transport properties of air at elevated temperatures has been completed . This project was carried out under sponsorship of the Ballistic Missile Division of the Air Research and Development Command , U . S . Air Force , and had as its goal the investigation of the transport by diffusion of the heat energy of chemical binding . A significant effect discovered during the study is the existence of Prandtl numbers reaching values of more than unity in the nitrogen dissociation region . Another effect discovered is the large coefficient of thermal diffusion tending to separate nitrogen from the oxygen when temperature differences straddling the nitrogen dissociation region are present . The results of the study , based on collision integrals computed from the latest critically evaluated data on intermolecular forces in air , will be reported in the form of a table of viscosity , thermal conductivity , thermal diffusion , and diffusion coefficients at temperatures of 1 , 000 to 10 , 000 Af and of logarithm of pressure in atmospheres from Af to Af times normal density . International cooperative activities . In March , 1961 , representatives of the national laboratories of Australia , Canada , The Netherlands , United Kingdom , U . S . S . R . , United States , and West Germany , met at the NBS to devise means for reaching international agreement on a temperature scale between 10 and 90 Af . As a first step toward this goal , arrangements were worked out for comparing the scales now in use through circulation of a group of standard platinum resistance thermometers for calibration by each national laboratory . Such a group of thermometers was obtained and calibrated at the Aj . These thermometers have now been sent to the United Kingdom for calibration at the National Physical Laboratory . Temperature symposium . During the last week of march 1961 , Columbus , Ohio was the site of the Fourth Symposium on Temperature , Its Measurement And Control In Science And Industry . The Symposium , which was jointly sponsored by the American Institute of Physics , the Instrument Society of America , and the National Bureau of Standards , attracted nearly one thousand registrants , including many from abroad . The Bureau contributed to the planning and success of the Symposium through the efforts of Mr . W . A . Wildhack , General Chairman , and Dr . C . M . Herzfeld , Program Chairman . Dr . A . V . Astin , NBS Director , opened the 5-day session with introductory remarks , following which a total of twenty-six papers were given throughout the week by NBS scientists , from both the Washington and Boulder Laboratories . 2 . 1 . 6 . Atomic physics In addition to the basic programs in wavelength standards , spectroscopy , solid state physics , interactions of the free electron and atomic constants which are necessary to provide the foundation for technological progress , the Bureau has strengthened its activities in laboratory astrophysics . The programs in infrared spectroscopy are undergoing reorientation toward wavelength standards in the far infrared , the application of infrared techniques to solid state studies , and increased emphasis on high resolution instrumentation . Two data centers have been established for the collection , indexing , critical evaluation , and dissemination of bibliographies and critical values in the fields of transition probabilities and collision cross sections . Laboratory astrophysics . Transition probabilities . Under the sponsorship of the Office of Naval Research and the Advanced Research Projects Agency , a data center was established to gather and index all published information on atomic transition probabilities . An exhaustive survey was made of the literature , and a primary reference file of approximately 600 references was catalogued . Selected bibliographies and tables of available data are now in preparation . A wall-stabilized high-current arc source was constructed and used to study transition probabilities of atomic hydrogen and oxygen . This apparatus will also be used to measure transition probabilities of a large number of other elements . A study of the hydrogen line profiles indicates that a measurement of these profiles can be used to calculate a temperature for the arc plasma that is reliable to about Af percent . A set of tables containing spectral intensities for 39 , 000 lines of 70 elements , as observed in a copper matrix in a d-c arc , was completed and published . Studies of the intensity data indicate that they may be converted to approximate transition probabilities . These data are not of the precision obtainable by the methods previously mentioned , but the vast number of approximate values available will be useful in many areas . Atomic energy levels . Research continues on the very complex spectra of the rare earth elements . New computer and automation techniques were applied to these spectra with considerable success . 
( E ) In addition to the penalties provided in Title 18 , United States Code , Section 1001 , any person guilty of any act , as provided therein , with respect to any matter under this Title , shall forfeit all rights under this Title , and , if payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same . ( F ) In connection with any claim decided by the Commission pursuant to this Title in which an award is made , the Commission may , upon the written request of the claimant or any attorney heretofore or hereafter employed by such claimant , determine and apportion the just and reasonable attorney fees for services rendered with respect to such claim , but the total amount of the fees so determined in any case shall not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award . Written evidence that the claimant and any such attorney have agreed to the amount of the attorney fees shall be conclusive upon the Commission : Provided , however , That the total amount of the fees so agreed upon does not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award . Any fee so determined shall be entered as a part of such award , and payment thereof shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury by deducting the amount thereof from the total amount paid pursuant to the award . Any agreement to the contrary shall be unlawful and void . The Commission is authorized and directed to mail to each claimant in proceedings before the Commission notice of the provisions of this subsection . Whoever , in the United States or elsewhere , pays or offers to pay , or promises to pay , or receives on account of services rendered or to be rendered in connection with any such claim , compensation which , when added to any amount previously paid on account of such services , will exceed the amount of fees so determined by the Commission , shall be guilty of a misdemeanor , and , upon conviction thereof , shall be fined not more than $5 , 000 or imprisoned not more than twelve months , or both , and if any such payment shall have been made or granted , the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same , and , in addition thereto , any such person shall forfeit all rights under this Title . ( G ) The Attorney General shall assign such officers and employees of the Department of Justice as may be necessary to represent the United States as to any claims of the Government of the United States with respect to which the Commission has jurisdiction under this title . Any and all payments required to be made by the Secretary of the Treasury under this title pursuant to any award made by the Commission to the Government of the United States shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts . ( H ) The Commission shall notify all claimants of the approval or denial of their claims , stating the reasons and grounds therefor , and if approved , shall notify such claimants of the amount for which such claims are approved . Any claimant whose claim is denied , or is approved for less than the full amount of such claim , shall be entitled , under such regulations as the Commission may prescribe , to a hearing before the Commission , or its duly authorized representatives , with respect to such claim . Upon such hearing , the Commission may affirm , modify , or revise its former action with respect to such claim , including a denial or reduction in the amount theretofore allowed with respect to such claim . The action of the Commission in allowing or denying any claim under this title shall be final and conclusive on all questions of law and fact and not subject to review by the Secretary of State or any other official , department , agency , or establishment of the United States or by any court by mandamus or otherwise . ( I ) The Commission may in its discretion enter an award with respect to one or more items deemed to have been clearly established in an individual claim while deferring consideration and action on other items of the same claim . ( J ) The Commission shall comply with the provisons of the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 except as otherwise specifically provided by this title . Sec . 5 . The Commission shall , as soon as possible , and in the order of the making of such awards , certify to the Secretary of the Treasury and to the Secretary of State copies of the awards made in favor of the Government of the United States or of nationals of the United States under this Title . The Commission shall certify to the Secretary of State , upon his request , copies of the formal submissions of claims filed pursuant to subsection ( B ) of Section 4 of this Act for transmission to the foreign government concerned . Sec . 6 . The Commission shall complete its affairs in connection with settlement of United States-Yugoslav claims arising under the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 not later than December 31 , 1954 : : Provided , That nothing in this provision shall be construed to limit the life of the Commission , or its authority to act on future agreements which may be effected under the provisions of this legislation . Sec . 7 . ( A ) Subject to the limitations hereinafter provided , the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to pay , as prescribed by Section 8 of this Title , an amount not exceeding the principal of each award , plus accrued interests on such awards as bear interest , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title , in accordance with the award . Such payments , and applications for such payments , shall be made in accordance with such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe . ( B ) There shall be deducted from the amount of each payment made pursuant to subsection ( C ) of Section 8 , as reimbursement for the expenses incurred by the United States , an amount equal to 5 per centum of such payment . All amounts so deducted shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts . ( C ) Payments made pursuant to this Title shall be made only to the person or persons on behalf of whom the award is made , except that -- ( 1 ) if such person is deceased or is under a legal disability , payment shall be made to his legal representative : Provided , That if the total award is not over $500 and there is no qualified executor or administrator , payment may be made to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto , without the necessity of compliance with the requirements of law with respect to the administration of estates ; 2 ) in the case of a partnership or corporation , the existence of which has been terminated and on behalf of which an award is made , payment shall be made , except as provided in paragraphs ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) , to the person or persons found by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto ; 3 ) if a receiver or trustee for any such partnership or corporation has been duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States and has not been discharged prior to the date of payment , payment shall be made to such receiver or trustee in accordance with the order of the court ; 4 ) if a receiver or trustee for any such partnership or corporation , duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States , makes an assignment of the claim , or any part thereof , with respect to which an award is made , or makes an assignment of such award , or any part thereof , payment shall be made to the assignee , as his interest may appear ; nd ( 5 ) in the case of any assignment of an award , or any part thereof , which is made in writing and duly acknowledged and filed , after such award is certified to the Secretary of the Treasury , payment may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be made to the assignee , as his interest may appear . ( D ) Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury , or the Comptroller General of the United States , as the case may be , shall find that any person is entitled to any such payment , after such payment shall have been received by such person , it shall be an absolute bar to recovery by any other person against the United States , its officers , agents , or employees with respect to such payment . ( E ) Any person who makes application for any such payment shall be held to have consented to all the provisions of this Title . ( F ) Nothing in the Title shall be construed as the assumption of any liability by the United States for the payment or satisfaction , in whole or in part , of any claim on behalf of any national of the United States against any foreign government . Sec . 8 . ( A ) There are hereby created in the Treasury of the United States ( 1 ) a special fund to be known as the Yugoslav Claims Fund ; nd ( 2 ) such other special funds as may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be required each to be a claims fund to be known by the name of the foreign government which has entered into a settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title . There shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of the proper special fund all funds hereinafter specified . All payments authorized under Section 7 of this Title shall be disbursed from the proper fund , as the case may be , and all amounts covered into the Treasury to the credit of the aforesaid funds are hereby permanently appropriated for the making of the payments authorized by Section 7 of this Title . ( B ) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to cover into -- ( 1 ) the Yugoslav Claims Fund the sum of $17 , 000 , 000 being the amount paid by the Government of the Federal People Republic of Yugoslavia pursuant to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 ; 2 ) a special fund created for that purpose pursuant to subsection ( A ) of this section any amounts hereafter paid , in United States dollars , by a foreign government which has entered into a claims settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title . ( C ) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed out of the sums covered into any of the funds pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , and after making the deduction provided for in Section 7 ( B ) of this Title -- ( 1 ) to make payments in full of the principal of awards of $1 , 000 or less , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title ; 2 ) to make payments of $1 , 000 on the principal of each award of more than $1 , 000 in principal amount , certified pursuant to Section 5 of this Title ; 3 ) to make additional payment of not to exceed 25 per centum of the unpaid principal of awards in the principal amount of more than $1 , 000 ; 4 ) after completing the payments prescribed by paragraphs ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of this subsection , to make payments , from time to time in ratable proportions , on account of the unpaid principal of all awards in the principal amount of more than $1 , 000 , according to the proportions which the unpaid principal of such awards bear to the total amount in the fund available for distribution at the time such payments are made ; nd ( 5 ) after payment has been made of the principal amounts of all such awards , to make pro rata payments on account of accrued interest on such awards as bear interest . ( D ) The Secretary of the Treasury , upon the concurrence of the Secretary of State , is authorized and directed , out of the sum covered into the Yugoslav Claims Fund pursuant to subsection ( B ) of this section , after completing the payments of such funds pursuant to subsection ( C ) of this Section , to make payment of the balance of any sum remaining in such fund to the Government of the Federal People Republic of Yugoslavia to the extent required under Article 1 ( C ) of the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 . The Secretary of State shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the total cost of adjudication , not borne by the claimants , attributable to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948 . Such certification shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review by any other official or department , agency , or establishment of the United States . Sec . 9 . There is hereby authorized to be appropriated , out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated , such sums as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions under this Title . 
Mr . Dooley . Mr . Speaker , for several years now the commuter railroads serving our large metropolitan areas have found it increasingly difficult to render the kind of service our expanding population wants and is entitled to have . The causes of the decline of the commuter railroads are many and complex -- high taxes , losses of revenue to Government subsidized highway and air carriers , to name but two . And the solutions to the problems of the commuter lines have been equally varied , ranging all the way from Government ownership to complete discontinuance of this important service . There have been a number of sound plans proposed . But none of these has been implemented . Instead we have stood idly by , watched our commuter railroad service decline , and have failed to offer a helping hand . Though the number of people flowing in and out of our metropolitan areas each day has increased tremendously since World War 2 , , total annual rail commutation dropped 124 million for 1947 to 1957 . Nowhere has this decline been more painfully evident than in the New York City area . Here the New York Central Railroad , one of the Nation most important carriers , has alone lost 47 . 6 percent of its passengers since 1949 . At this time of crisis in our Nation commuter railroads , a new threat to the continued operations of the New York Central has appeared in the form of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad proposal for control of the Baltimore & Ohio railroads . The New York Central has pointed out that this control , if approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission , would give the combined C . & O . - B . & O . Railroad a total of 185 points served in common with the New York Central . Not only is this kind of duplication wasteful , but it gives the combined system the ability to take freight traffic away from the New York Central and other railroads serving the area . The New York Central notes : `` The freight traffic most susceptible to raiding by the C . & O . - B . & O . provides the backbone of Central revenues . These revenues make it possible to provide essential freight and passenger service over the entire New York Central system as well as the New York area commuter and terminal freight services . If these services are to be maintained , the New York Central must have the revenues to make them possible . The New York Central today handles 60 percent of all southbound commuter traffic coming into New York City . This is a $14 million operation involving 3 , 500 employees who work on commuter traffic exclusively . A blow to this phase of the Central operations would have serious economic consequences not only to the railroad itself , but to the 40 , 000 people per day who are provided with efficient , reasonably priced transportation in and out of the city . `` There is a workable alternative to this potentially dangerous and harmful C . & O . - B . & O . merger scheme -- The Central has pointed out . `` The logic of creating a strong , balanced , competitive two-system railroad service in the East is so obvious that B . & O . was publicly committed to the approach outlined here . Detailed studies of the plan were well underway . Though far from completion , these studies indicated beyond a doubt that savings would result which would be of unprecedented benefit to the railroads concerned , their investors , their customers , their users , and to the public at large . Then , abandoning the studies in the face of their promising outlook for all concerned , B . & O . entered on-again-off-again negotiations with C . & O . which resulted in the present situation . In the light of the facts at hand , however , New York Central intends to pursue the objective of helping to create a healthy two-system eastern railroad structure in the public interest . The Interstate Commerce Commission will commence its deliberations on the proposed C . & O . - B . & O . merger on June 18 . Obviously , the Interstate Commerce Commission will not force the New York Central to further curtail its commuter operations by giving undue competitive advantages to the lines that wish to merge . However , there is a more profound consideration to this proposed merger than profit and loss . That is , will it serve the long-range public interest ? For the past 40 years Congress has advocated a carefully planned , balanced and competitive railway system . We must ask ourselves which of the two alternatives will help the commuter -- the two-way B . & O . - C . & O . merger , or the three-way New York Central - B . & O . - C . & O . merger . Which will serve not only the best interest of the stockholders , but the interests of all the traveling public ? Mr . Lindsay . Mr . Speaker , I rise today to pay tribute to a great newspaper , the New York Times , on the occasion of a major change in its top executive command . Arthur Hays Sulzberger has been a distinguished publisher of this distinguished newspaper and it is fitting that we take due notice of his major contribution to American journalism on the occasion of his retirement . I am pleased to note that Mr . Sulzberger will continue to serve as chairman of the board of the New York Times . Mr . Sulzberger successor as publisher is Mr . Orvil E . Dryfoos , who is president of the New York Times Co . , and who has been with the Times since 1942 . Mr . Dryfoos ' outstanding career as a journalist guarantees that the high standards which have made the Times one of the world great newspapers will be maintained . I am also pleased to note that Mr . John B . Oakes , a member of the Times staff since 1946 , has been appointed as editorial page editor . Mr . Oakes succeeds Charles Merz , editor since 1938 , who now becomes editor emeritus . I should like at this time , Mr . Speaker , to pay warm tribute to Arthur Hays Sulzberger and Charles Merz on the occasion of their retirement from distinguished careers in American journalism . My heartiest congratulations go to their successors , Orvil E . Dryfoos and John B . Oakes , who can be counted upon to sustain the illustrious tradition of the New York Times . The people of the 17th District of New York , and I as their Representative in Congress , take great pride in the New York Times as one of the great and authoritative newspapers of the world . Mr . Stratton . Mr . Speaker , in my latest newsletter to my constituents I urged the imposition of a naval blockade of Cuba as the only effective method of preventing continued Soviet armaments from coming into the Western Hemisphere in violation of the Monroe Doctrine . Yesterday , I had the privilege of reading a thoughtful article in the U . S . News & World Report of May 8 which discussed this type of action in more detail , including both its advantages and its disadvantages . Under leave to extend my remarks , I include the relevant portion of my newsletter , together with the text of the article from the U . S . News & World Report : `` your Congressman , Samuel S . Stratton , reports from Washington , May 1 , 1961 . Cuban S . S . R . : Whatever may have been the setbacks resulting from the unsuccessful attempt of the Cuban rebels to establish a beachhead on the Castro-held mainland last week , there was at least one positive benefit , and that was the clear-cut revelation to the whole world of the complete conversion of Cuba into a Russian-dominated military base . In fact , one of the major reasons for the failure of the ill-starred expedition appears to have been a lack of full information on the extent to which Cuba has been getting this Russian military equipment . Somehow , the pictures and stories of Soviet T-34 tanks on Cuban beaches and Russian Mig jet fighters strafing rebel troops has brought home to all of us the stark , blunt truth of what it means to have a Russian military base 90 miles away from home . Russian tanks and planes in Cuba jeopardize the security of the United States , violate the Monroe Doctrine , and threaten the security of every other Latin American republic . Once the full extent of this Russian military penetration of Cuba was clear , President Kennedy announced we would take whatever action was appropriate to prevent this , even if we had to go it alone . But the Latin American republics who have been rather inclined to drag their feet on taking action against Castro also reacted swiftly last week by finally throwing Cuba off the Inter-American Defense Board . For years the United States had been trying to get these countries to exclude Castro representative from secret military talks . But it took the pictures of the Migs and the T-34 tanks to do the job . There is a new atmosphere of urgency in Washington this week . You can see it , for example , in the extensive efforts President Kennedy has made to enlist solid bipartisan support for his actions toward both Cuba and Laos ; fforts , as I see it , which are being directed , by the way , toward support for future actions , not for those already past . What the next move will be only time , of course , will tell . Personally , I think we ought to set up an immediate naval blockade of Cuba . We simply can tolerate further Russian weapons , including the possibility of long-range nuclear missiles , being located in Cuba . Obviously , we can stop them from coming in , however , just by talk . A naval blockade would be thoroughly in line with the Monroe Doctrine , would be a relatively simple operation to carry out , and would bring an abrupt end to Soviet penetration of our hemisphere . `` ( from U . s . News & World Report , May 8 , 1961 ) next for Cuba : an arms blockade ? Look at Castro now -- cockier than ever with arms and agents to threaten the Americas . How can the United States act ? Blockade is one answer offered by experts . In it they see a way to isolate Cuba , stop infiltration , maybe finish Castro , too . This is the question now facing President Kennedy : How to put a stop to the Soviet buildup in Cuba and to Communist infiltration of this hemisphere ? On April 25 , the White House reported that a total embargo of remaining U . S . trade with Cuba was being considered . Its aim : To undermine further Cuba economy . Weaken Castro . Another strategy -- bolder and tougher -- was also attracting notice in Washington : a naval and air blockade to cut Cuba off from the world , destroy Castro . Blockade , in the view of military and civilian experts , could restore teeth to the Monroe Doctrine . It could halt a flood of Communist arms and strategic supplies now reaching Castro . It could stop Cuban re-export of guns and propaganda materials to South America . It would be the most severe reprisal , short of declared war , that the United States could invoke against Castro . It is the strategy of blockade , therefore , that is suddenly at the center of attention of administration officials , Members of Congress , officers in the Pentagon . As a possible course of action , it also is the center of debate and is raising many questions . Among these questions : what would a Cuba blockade take ? Military experts say a tight naval blockade off Cuban ports and at the approaches to Cuban waters would require two naval task forces , each built around an aircraft carrier with a complement of about 100 planes and several destroyers . The Navy , on April 25 , announced it is bringing back the carrier Shangri-La from the Mediterranean , increasing to four the number of attack carriers in the vicinity of Cuba . More than 36 other big Navy ships are no less than a day sailing time away . To round out the blockading force , submarines would be needed -- to locate , identify and track approaching vessels . Land-based radar would help with this task . So would radar picket ships . A squadron of Navy jets and another of long-range patrol planes would add support to the carrier task forces . Three requirements go with a blockade : It must be proclaimed ; he blockading force must be powerful enough to enforce it ; nd it must be enforced without discrimination . Once these conditions of international law are met , countries that try to run the blockade do so at their own risk . Blockade runners can be stopped -- by gunfire , if necessary -- searched and held , at least temporarily . They could be sent to U . S . ports for rulings whether cargo should be confiscated . What could a blockade accomplish ? Plenty , say the experts . In a broad sense , it would reaffirm the Monroe Doctrine by opposing Communist interference in the Western Hemisphere . It could , by avoiding direct intervention , provide a short-of-war strategy to meet short-of-war infiltration . Primary target would be shipments of tanks , guns , aviation gasoline and ammunition coming from Russia and Czechoslovakia . Shipments of arms from Western countries could similarly be seized as contraband . In a total blockade , action could also be taken against ships bringing in chemicals , oils , textiles , and even foodstuffs . At times , three ships a day from the Soviet bloc are unloading in Cuban ports . 
From its inception in 1920 with the passage of Public Law 236 , 66th Congress , the purpose of the vocational rehabilitation program has been to assist the States , by means of grants-in-aid , to return disabled men and women to productive , gainful employment . The authority for the program was renewed several times until the vocational rehabilitation program was made permanent as Title 5 , of the Social Security Act in 1935 . Up to this time and for the next eight years , the services provided disabled persons consisted mainly of training , counseling , and placement on a job . Recognizing the limitations of such a program , the 78th Congress in 1943 passed P . L . 113 , which broadened the concept of rehabilitation to include the provision of physical restoration services to remove or reduce disabilities , and which revised the financing structure . Recent changes . Despite the successful rehabilitation of over a half million disabled persons in the first eleven years after 1943 , the existing program was still seen to be inadequate to cope with the nation backlog of an estimated two million disabled . To assist the States , therefore , in rehabilitating handicapped individuals , `` so that they may prepare for and engage in remunerative employment to the extent of their capabilities , the 83rd Congress enacted the Vocational Rehabilitation Amendments of 1954 ( P . L . 565 ) . These amendments to the Vocational Rehabilitation Act were designed to help provide for more specialized rehabilitation facilities , for more sheltered and `` half-way workshops , for greater numbers of adequately trained personnel , for more comprehensive services to individuals ( particularly to the homebound and the blind ) , and for other administrative improvements to increase the program overall effectiveness . Financial aspects . Under the law as it existed until 1943 , the Federal Government made grants to the States on the basis of population , matching State expenditures on a 50-50 basis . Under P . L . 113 , 78th Congress , the Federal Government assumed responsibility for 100% of necessary State expenditures in connection with administration and the counseling and placement of the disabled , and for 50% of the necessary costs of providing clients with rehabilitation case services . Throughout these years , the statutory authorization was for such sums as were necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act . The 1954 Amendments completely changed the financing of the vocational rehabilitation program , providing for a three-part grant structure -- for ( 1 ) basic support ; 2 ) extension and improvement ; nd ( 3 ) research , demonstrations , training and traineeships for vocational rehabilitation -- and in addition for short-term training and instruction . The first part of the new structure -- that for supporting the basic program of vocational rehabilitation services -- is described in this Section . Subsequent sections on grants describe the other categories of the grant structure . The following table shows , for selected years , the authorizations , appropriations , allotment base , Federal grants to States and State matching funds for this part of the grant program : method of distributing funds description of formula . In order to assist the States in maintaining basic vocational rehabilitation services , Section 2 of the amended Act provides that allotments to States for support of such services be based on ( 1 ) need , as measured by a State population , and ( 2 ) fiscal capacity , as measured by its per capita income . The Act further provides for a `` floor or minimum allotment , set at the 1954 level , which is called the `` base allotment , and a `` ceiling or maximum allotment , for each State . It stipulates , in addition , that all amounts remaining as a result of imposing the `` ceiling , and not used for insuring the `` floor , be redistributed to those States still below their maximums . These provisions are designed to reflect the differences in wealth and population among the States , with the objective that a vocationally handicapped person have access to needed services regardless of whether he resides in a State with a low or high per capita income or a sparsely or thickly populated State . The provisions are also designed to avoid disruption in State programs already in operation , which might otherwise result from the allotment of funds on the basis of wealth and population alone . Method of computing allotments . The method used in computing the allotments is specifically set forth in the Act . The term `` State means the several States , the District of Columbia , the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico ; he term `` United States includes the several States and the District of Columbia , and excludes the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii . The following steps are employed in calculations : 1 . For each State ( except Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) determine average per capita income based on the last three years . ( See Source of Data , below for per capita income data to be used in this step . ) 2 . Determine the average per capita income for the U . S . based on the last three years . ( See Source of Data , below , for per capita income data to be used in this step . ) 3 . Determine the ratio of 50% to the average per capita income of the U . S . ( Divide 50 by the result obtained in item 2 above . ) 4 . Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) that percentage which bears the same ratio to 50% as the particular State average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the U . S . . ( Multiply the result obtained in item 3 above by the result obtained for each State in item 1 above . ) 5 . Determine the particular State `` allotment percentage . By law this is 75% for the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico . ( Alaska and Hawaii had fixed allotment percentages in effect prior to fiscal year 1962 . ) In all other States it is the difference obtained by subtracting from 100 the result obtained in item 4 above ; xcept that no State shall have an allotment percentage less than 33-1 nor more than 75% . If the resulting difference for the particular State is less or more than these extremes , the State allotment percentage must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme . 6 . Square each State allotment percentage . 7 . Determine each State population . ( See Source of Data , below for population data to be used in this step . ) 8 . Multiply the population of each State by the square of its allotment percentage . ( Multiply result obtained in item 7 above , by result obtained in item 6 above . ) 9 . Determine the sum of the products obtained in item 8 above , for all the States . ( For each State , make all computations set forth in items 1 to 8 above , and then add the results obtained for each State in item 8 . ) 10 . Determine the ratio that the amount being allotted is to the sum of the products for all the States . ( Divide the amount being allotted by the result obtained in item 9 above . ) 11 . Determine the particular State unadjusted allotment for the particular fiscal year . ( Multiply the State product in item 8 above by the result obtained in item 10 above . ) 12 . Determine if the particular State unadjusted allotment ( result obtained in item 11 above ) is greater than its maximum allotment , and if so lower its unadjusted allotment to its maximum allotment . ( Each State unadjusted allotment for any fiscal year , which exceeds its minimum allotment described in item 13 below by a percentage greater than one and one-half times the percentage by which the sum being allotted exceeds $23 , 000 , 000 , must be reduced by the amount of the excess . ) 13 . Determine if the particular State unadjusted allotment ( result obtained in item 11 above ) is less than its minimum ( base ) allotment , and if so raise its unadjusted allotment to its minimum allotment . Regardless of its unadjusted allotment , each State is guaranteed by law a minimum allotment each year equal to the allotment which it received in fiscal year 1954 -- increased by a uniform percentage of 5 . 4865771 which brings total 1954 allotments to all States up to $23 , 000 , 000 . 14 . The funds recouped by reductions in item 12 above are used : first , to increase the unadjusted allotments to the specified minimum in those States where the unadjusted allotment is less than the minimum allotment ( item 13 above ) ; nd second , to increase uniformly the allotments to those States whose allotments are below their maximums , with adjustments to prevent the allotment of any State from thereby exceeding its maximum . Additional note on allotments . For the States which maintain two separate agencies -- one for the vocational rehabilitation of the blind , and one for the rehabilitation of persons other than the blind -- the Act specifies that their minimum ( base ) allotment shall be divided between the two agencies in the same proportion as it was divided in fiscal year 1954 . Funds allotted in addition to their minimum allotment are apportioned to the two agencies as they may determine . Matching requirements explanation of matching formula . As is the case with the allotment provisions for support of vocational rehabilitation services , the matching requirements are also based on a statutory formula . Prior to 1960 , in order to provide matching for the minimum ( base ) allotment , State funds had to equal 1954 State funds . Prior to and since 1960 the rest of the support allotment is matched at rates related to the fiscal capacity of the State , with a pivot of 40% State ( or 60% Federal ) participation in total program costs . The percentage of Federal participation in such costs for any State is referred to in the law as that State `` Federal share . For purposes of this explanation , this percentage is referred to as the State `` unadjusted Federal share . Beginning in 1960 , the matching requirements for the base allotment are being adjusted ( upward or downward , as required ) 25% a year , so that by 1963 the entire support allotment will be matched on the basis of a 40% pivot State share , with maximum and minimum State shares of 50% and 30% , respectively . The pre-1960 rate of Federal participation with respect to any State base allotment , as well as the adjusted rate in effect during the 1960 - 1962 period , is designated by the statute as that State `` adjusted Federal Share . The provisions for determining a State unadjusted Federal share are designed to reflect the varying financial resources among the States . The purpose of the adjusted Federal share relating to the base allotment and of the transition provisions for reaching the unadjusted Federal share is to prevent dislocations from abrupt changes in matching rates . Method of computing Federal shares . The method used for computing the respective Federal and State shares in total program costs is specifically set forth in the Act . The term `` State means the several States , the District of Columbia , the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico ; he term `` United States includes the several States and the District of Columbia and excludes the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii . The following steps are employed in the calculations : 1 . For each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , determine the average per capita income for the last three years . ( the same amount used in item 1 under Method Of Computing Allotments , above . ) 2 . Determine the average per capita income for the United States for the last three years . ( The same amount used in item 2 under Method Of Computing Allotments , above . ) 3 . Determine the ratio of 40% to the average per capita income of the United States . ( Divide 40 by the amount used in item 2 above . ) 4 . Determine for each State ( except the Virgin Islands , Guam , Puerto Rico , and , prior to 1962 , Alaska and Hawaii ) , that percentage which bears the same ration to 40% as the particular State average per capita income bears to the average per capita income of the United States . ( Multiply the result obtained in item 3 above by the amount used for each State in item 1 above . ) 5 . Determine the particular State `` Federal Share . By law this is 70% for the Virgin Islands , Guam and Puerto Rico . ( Alaska and Hawaii had fixed Federal share percentages in effect prior to fiscal year 1962 . ) In all other States it is the difference obtained by subtracting from 100 the result obtained in item 4 above ; xcept that no State shall have a Federal share less than 50% nor more than 70% . If the resulting difference for the particular State is less or more than these extremes , the State Federal share must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme . 
At the entrance side of the shelter , each roof beam is rested on the inside 4 inches of the block wall . The outside 4-inch space is filled by mortaring blocks on edge . The wooden bracing between the roof beams is placed flush with the inside of the wall . Mortar is poured between this bracing and the 4-inch blocks on edge to complete the wall thickness for radiation shielding . ( For details see inset , fig . 5 . ) The first one or two roof boards ( marked `` E in fig . 6 ) are slipped into place across the roof beams , from outside the shelter . These boards are nailed to the roof beams by reaching up through the open space between the beams , from inside the shelter . Concrete blocks are passed between the beams and put on the boards . The roof blocks are in two layers and are not mortared together . Work on the roof continues in this way . The last roof boards are covered with blocks from outside the shelter . When the roof blocks are all in place , the final rows of wall blocks are mortared into position . The structure is complete . ( See fig . 7 . ) Building plans are on page 21 . Solid concrete blocks , relatively heavy and dense , are used for this shelter . These blocks are sold in various sizes so it seldom is necessary to cut a block to fit . Solid blocks are recommended because hollow blocks would have to be filled with concrete to give effective protection . Bricks are an alternative . If they are used , the walls and roof should be 10 inches thick to give the same protection as the 8-inch solid concrete blocks . The illustrations in fig . 8 show how to lay a concrete block wall . More detailed instructions may be obtained from your local building supply houses and craftsmen . Other sources of information include the National Concrete Masonry Association , 38 South Dearborn Street , Chicago , Ill . , the Portland Cement Association , 33 West Grand Avenue , Chicago , Ill . , and the Structural Clay Products Association , Washington , D . C . . Aboveground double-wall shelter An outdoor , aboveground fallout shelter also may be built with concrete blocks . ( See fig . 9 , double-wall shelter . ) Most people would have to hire a contractor to build this shelter . Plans are on pages 22 and 23 . This shelter could be built in regions where water or rock is close to the surface , making it impractical to build an underground shelter . Two walls of concrete blocks are constructed at least 20 inches apart . The space between them is filled with pit-run gravel or earth . The walls are held together with metal ties placed in the wet mortar as the walls are built . The roof shown here ( fig . 9 ) is a 6-inch slab of reinforced concrete , covered with at least 20 inches of pit-run gravel . An alternate roof , perhaps more within do-it-yourself reach , could be constructed of heavy wooden roof beams , overlaid with boards and waterproofing . It would have to be covered with at least 28 inches of pit-run gravel . The materials for a double-wall shelter would cost about $700 . Contractors ' charges would be additional . The shelter would provide almost absolute fallout protection . Pre-shaped metal shelter Pre-shaped corrugated metal sections or pre-cast concrete can be used for shelters either above or below ground . These are particularly suitable for regions where water or rock is close to the surface . They form effective fallout shelters when mounded over with earth , as shown in figure 10 . Materials for this shelter would cost about $700 . A contractor probably would be required to help build it . His charges would be added to the cost of materials . This shelter , as shown on page 24 , would provide almost absolute protection from fallout radiation . An alternate hatchway entrance , shown on page 25 , would reduce the cost of materials $50 to $100 . The National Lumber Manufacturers Association , Washington , D . C . , is developing plans to utilize specially treated lumber for underground shelter construction . The Structural Clay Products Institute , Washington , D . C . , is working to develop brick and clay products suitable for shelter construction . Underground concrete shelter An underground reinforced concrete shelter can be built by a contractor for about $1 , 000 to $1 , 500 , depending on the type of entrance . The shelter shown would provide almost absolute fallout protection . The illustration ( fig . 11 ) shows this shelter with the roof at ground level and mounded over . The same shelter could be built into an embankment or below ground level . Plans for the shelter , with either a stairway or hatchway entrance , are shown on pages 26 and 27 . Another type of shelter which gives excellent fallout protection can be built as an added room to the basement of a home under construction . It would add about $500 to the total cost of the home . The shelter illustrated in figure 12 is based on such a room built in a new home in the Washington , D . C . area in the Spring of 1959 . Important considerations common to each type of shelter are : 1 . Arrangement of the entrance . 2 . Ventilation . 3 . Radio reception . 4 . Lighting . The entrance must have at least one right-angle turn . Radiation scatters somewhat like light . Some will go around a corner . The rest continues in a straight line . Therefore , sharp turns in a shelter entrance will reduce radiation intensity inside the shelter . Ventilation is provided in a concrete block basement shelter by vents in the wall and by the open entrance . A blower may be installed to increase comfort . A blower is essential for the double-wall shelter and for the underground shelters . It should provide not less than 5 cubic feet per minute of air per person . Vent pipes also are necessary ( as shown in figs . 9 , 10 , and 11 ) , but filters are not . Radio reception is cut down by the shielding necessary to keep out radiation . As soon as the shelter is completed a radio reception check must be made . It probably will be necessary to install an outside antenna , particularly to receive CONELRAD broadcasts . Lighting is an important consideration . Continuous low-level lighting may be provided in the shelter by means of a 4-cell hot-shot battery to which is wired a 150-milliampere flashlight-type bulb . Tests have shown that such a device , with a fresh battery , will furnish light continuously for at least 10 days . With a spare battery , a source of light for 2 weeks or more would be assured . A flashlight or electric lantern also should be available for those periods when a brighter light is needed . There should be a regular electrical outlet in the shelter as power may continue in many areas . Other considerations . -- If there are outside windows in the basement corner where you build a shelter , they should be shielded as shown in the Appendix , page 29 . Other basement windows should be blocked when an emergency threatens . Basement walls that project above the ground should be shielded as shown in the Appendix , page 29 . In these shelters the entrance should be not more than 2 feet wide . Bunks , or materials to build them , may have to be put inside the enclosure before the shelter walls are completed . The basement or belowground shelters also will serve for tornado or hurricane protection . 3 . Living in a shelter The radioactivity of fallout decays rapidly at first . Forty-nine hours after an atomic burst the radiation intensity is only about 1 percent of what it was an hour after the explosion . But the radiation may be so intense at the start that one percent may be extremely dangerous . Therefore , civil defense instructions received over CONELRAD or by other means should be followed . A battery-powered radio is essential . Radiation instruments suitable for home use are available , and would be of value in locating that portion of the home which offers the best protection against fallout radiation . There is a possibility that battery-powered radios with built-in radiation meters may become available . One instrument thus would serve both purposes . Your local civil defense will gather its own information and will receive broad information from State and Federal sources . It will tell you as soon as possible : How long to stay in your shelter ; How soon you may go outdoors ; How long you may stay outside . You should be prepared to stay in your shelter full time for at least several days and to make it your home for 14 days or longer . A checklist in the Appendix ( ( page 30 ) tells what is needed . Families with children will have particular problems . They should provide for simple recreation . There should be a task for everyone and these tasks should be rotated . Part of the family should be sleeping while the rest is awake . To break the monotony it may be necessary to invent tasks that will keep the family busy . Records such as diaries can be kept . The survival of the family will depend largely on information received by radio . A record should be kept of the information and instructions , including the time and date of broadcast . Family rationing probably will be necessary . Blowers should be operated periodically on a regular schedule . There will come a time in a basement shelter when the radiation has decayed enough to allow use of the whole basement . However , as much time as possible should be spent within the shelter to hold radiation exposure to a minimum . The housekeeping problems of living in a shelter will begin as soon as the shelter is occupied . Food , medical supplies , utensils , and equipment , if not already stored in the shelter , must be quickly gathered up and carried into it . After the family has settled in the shelter , the housekeeping rules should be spelled out by the adult in charge . Sanitation in the confines of the family shelter will require much thought and planning . Provision for emergency toilet facilities and disposal of human wastes will be an unfamiliar problem . A covered container such as a kitchen garbage pail might do as a toilet . A 10-gallon garbage can , with a tightly fitting cover , could be used to keep the wastes until it is safe to leave the shelter . Water rationing will be difficult and should be planned carefully . A portable electric heater is advisable for shelters in cold climates . It would take the chill from the shelter in the beginning . Even if the electric power fails after an attack , any time that the heater has been used will make the shelter that much more comfortable . Body heat in the close quarters will help keep up the temperature . Warm clothing and bedding , of course , are essential . Open-flame heating or cooking should be avoided . A flame would use up air . Some families already have held weekend rehearsals in their home shelters to learn the problems and to determine for themselves what supplies they would need . 4 . If an attack finds you without a prepared shelter Few areas , if any , are as good as prepared shelters but they are worth knowing about . A family dwelling without a basement provides some natural shielding from fallout radiation . On the ground floor the radiation would be about half what it is outside . The best protection would be on the ground floor in the central part of the house . A belowground basement can cut the fallout radiation to one-tenth of the outside level . The safest place is the basement corner least exposed to windows and deepest below ground . If there is time after the warning , the basement shielding could be improved substantially by blocking windows with bricks , dirt , books , magazines , or other heavy material . 5 . Shelter in apartment buildings Large apartment buildings of masonry or concrete provide better natural shelter than the usual family dwellings . In general , such apartments afford more protection than smaller buildings because their walls are thick and there is more space . The central area of the ground floor of a heavily constructed apartment building , with concrete floors , should provide more fallout protection than the ordinary basement of a family dwelling . The basement of such an apartment building may provide as much natural protection as the specially constructed concrete block shelter recommended for the basement of a family dwelling . The Federal Government is aiding local governments in several places to survey residential , commercial and industrial buildings to determine what fallout protection they would provide , and for how many people . The problem for the city apartment dweller is primarily to plan the use of existing space . Such planning will require the cooperation of other occupants and of the apartment management . 
A former Du Pont official became a General Motors vice president and set about maximizing Du Pont share of the General Motors market . Lines of communications were established between the two companies and several Du Pont products were actively promoted . Within a few years various Du Pont manufactured items were filling the entire requirements of from four to seven of General Motors ' eight operating divisions . The Fisher Body division , long controlled by the Fisher brothers under a voting trust even though General Motors owned a majority of its stock , followed an independent course for many years , but by 1947 and 1948 `` resistance had collapsed and its purchases from Du Pont `` compared favorably with purchases by other General Motors divisions . Competitors came to receive higher percentage of General Motors business in later years , but it is `` likely that this trend stemmed `` at least in part from the needs of General Motors outstripping Du Pont capacity . `` The fact that sticks out in this voluminous record is that the bulk of Du Pont production has always supplied the largest part of the requirements of the one customer in the automobile industry connected to Du Pont by a stock interest . The inference is overwhelming that Du Pont commanding position was promoted by its stock interest and was not gained solely on competitive merit . 353 U . S . , at 605 . This Court agreed with the trial court `` that considerations of price , quality and service were not overlooked by either Du Pont or General Motors . 353 U . S . , at 606 . However , it determined that neither this factor , nor `` the fact that all concerned in high executive posts in both companies acted honorably and fairly , each in the honest conviction that his actions were in the best interests of his own company and without any design to overreach anyone , including Du Pont competitors , outweighed the Government claim for relief . This claim , as submitted to the District Court and dismissed by it , 126 F . Supp . 235 , alleged violation not only of 7 of the Clayton Act , but also of 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act . The latter provisions proscribe any contract , combination , or conspiracy in restraint of interstate or foreign trade , and monopolization of , or attempts , combinations , or conspiracies to monopolize , such trade . However , this Court put to one side without consideration the Government appeal from the dismissal of its Sherman Act allegations . It rested its decision solely on 7 , which reads in pertinent part : `` No corporation engaged in commerce shall acquire , directly or indirectly , the whole or any part of the stock or other share capital of another corporation engaged also in commerce , where the effect of such acquisition may be to substantially lessen competition between the corporation whose stock is so acquired and the corporation making the acquisition , or to restrain such commerce in any section or community , or tend to create a monopoly of any line of commerce . This section shall not apply to corporations purchasing such stock solely for investment and not using the same by voting or otherwise to bring about , or in attempting to bring about , the substantial lessening of competition . The purpose of this provision was thus explained in the Court opinion : `` Section 7 is designed to arrest in its incipiency not only the substantial lessening of competition from the acquisition by one corporation of the whole or any part of the stock of a competing corporation , but also to arrest in their incipiency restraints or monopolies in a relevant market which , as a reasonable probability , appear at the time of suit likely to result from the acquisition by one corporation of all or any part of the stock of any other corporation . The section is violated whether or not actual restraints or monopolies , or the substantial lessening of competition , have occurred or are intended . 353 U . S . , at 589 . Thus , a finding of conspiracy to restrain trade or attempt to monopolize was excluded from the Court decision . Indeed , as already noted , the Court proceeded on the assumption that the executives involved in the dealings between Du Pont and General Motors acted `` honorably and fairly and exercised their business judgment only to serve what they deemed the best interests of their own companies . This , however , did not bar finding that Du Pont had become pre-eminent as a supplier of automotive fabrics and finishes to General Motors ; hat these products constituted a `` line of commerce within the meaning of the Clayton Act ; hat General Motors ' share of the market for these products was substantial ; nd that competition for this share of the market was endangered by the financial relationship between the two concerns : `` The statutory policy of fostering free competition is obviously furthered when no supplier has an advantage over his competitors from an acquisition of his customer stock likely to have the effects condemned by the statute . We repeat , that the test of a violation of 7 is whether , at the time of suit , there is a reasonable probability that the acquisition is likely to result in the condemned restraints . The conclusion upon this record is inescapable that such likelihood was proved as to this acquisition . 353 U . S . , at 607 . On the basis of the findings which led to this conclusion , the Court remanded the case to the District Court to determine the appropriate relief . The sole guidance given the Court for discharging the task committed to it was this : `` The judgment must therefore be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for a determination , after further hearing , of the equitable relief necessary and appropriate in the public interest to eliminate the effects of the acquisition offensive to the statute . The District Courts , in the framing of equitable decrees , are clothed ' with large discretion to model their judgements to fit the exigencies of the particular case . International Salt Co . v . United States , 332 U . S . 392 , 400-401 . 353 U . S . , at 607-608 . This brings us to the course of the proceedings in the District Court . 2 . This Court judgment was filed in the District Court on July 18 , 1957 . The first pretrial conference -- held to appoint amici curiae to represent the interest of the stockholders of Du Pont and General Motors and to consider the procedure to be followed in the subsequent hearings -- took place on September 25 , 1957 . At the outset , the Government spokesman explained that counsel for the Government and for Du Pont had already held preliminary discussions with a view to arriving at a relief plan that both sides could recommend to the court . Du Pont , he said , had proposed disenfranchisement of its General Motors stock along with other restrictions on the Du Pont - General Motors relationship . The Government , deeming these suggestions inadequate , had urged that any judgment include divestiture of Du Pont shares of General Motors . Counsel for the Government invited Du Pont views on this proposal before recommending a specific program , but stated that if the court desired , or if counsel for Du Pont thought further discussion would not be profitable , the Government was prepared to submit a plan within thirty days . Counsel for Du Pont indicated a preference for the submission of detailed plans by both sides at an early date . No previous antitrust case , he said , had involved interests of such magnitude or presented such complex problems of relief . The submission of detailed plans would place the issues before the court more readily than would discussion of divestiture or disenfranchisement in the abstract . The Court adopted this procedure with an appropriate time schedule for carrying it out . The Government submitted its proposed decree on October 25 , 1957 . The plan called for divestiture by Du Pont of its 63 , 000 , 000 shares of General Motors stock by equal annual distributions to its stockholders , as a dividend , over a period of ten years . Christiana Securities Company and Delaware Realty & Investment Company , major stockholders in Du Pont , and the stockholders of Delaware were dealt with specially by provisions requiring the annual sale by a trustee , again over a ten-year period , of Du Pont General Motors stock allocable to them , as well as any General Motors stock which Christiana and Delaware owned outright . If , in the trustee judgment , `` reasonable market conditions did not prevail during any given year , he was to be allowed to petition the court for an extension of time within the ten-year period . In addition , the right to vote the General Motors stock held by Du Pont was to be vested in Du Pont stockholders , other than Christiana and Delaware and the stockholders of Delaware ; u Pont , Christiana , and Delaware were to be enjoined from acquiring stock in or exercising control over General Motors ; u Pont , Christiana , and Delaware were to be prohibited to have any director or officer in common with General Motors , and vice versa ; nd General Motors and Du Pont were to be ordered to terminate any agreement that provided for the purchase by General Motors of any specified percentage of its requirements of any Du Pont manufactured product , or for the grant of exclusive patent rights , or for a grant by General Motors to Du Pont of a preferential right to make or sell any chemical discovery of General Motors , or for the maintenance of any joint commercial enterprise by the two companies . On motion of the Amici Curiae , the court directed that a ruling be obtained from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue as to the federal income tax consequences of the Government plan . On May 9 , 1958 , the Commissioner announced his rulings . The annual dividends paid to Du Pont stockholders in shares of General Motors stock would be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of Du Pont earnings and profits . The measure , for federal income tax purposes , of the dividend to individual stockholders would be the fair market value of the shares at the time of each annual distribution . In the case of taxpaying corporate stockholders , the measure would be the lesser of the fair market value of the shares or Du Pont tax basis for them , which is approximately $2 . 09 per share . The forced sale of the General Motors stock owned by or allocable to Christiana , Delaware , and the stockholders of Delaware , and deposited with the trustee , would result in a tax to those parties at the capital gains rate . Du Pont counterproposal was filed on May 14 , 1958 . Under its plan Du Pont would retain its General Motors shares but be required to pass on to its stockholders the right to vote those shares . Christiana and Delaware would , in turn , be required to pass on the voting rights to the General Motors shares allocable to them to their own stockholders . Du Pont would be enjoined from having as a director , officer , or employee anyone who was simultaneously an officer or employee of General Motors , and no director , officer , or employee of Du Pont could serve as a director of General Motors without court approval . Du Pont would be denied the right to acquire any additional General Motors stock except through General Motors ' distributions of stock or subscription rights to its stockholders . On June 6 , 1958 , General Motors submitted its objections to the Government proposal . It argued , inter alia , that a divestiture order would severely depress the market value of the stock of both General Motors and Du Pont , with consequent serious loss and hardship to hundreds of thousands of innocent investors , among them thousands of small trusts and charitable institutions ; hat there would be a similar decline in the market values of other automotive and chemical stocks , with similar losses to the stockholders of those companies ; hat the tremendous volume of General Motors stock hanging over the market for ten years would hamper the efforts of General Motors and other automobile manufacturers to raise equity capital ; nd that all this would have a serious adverse effect on the entire stock market and on general business activity . General Motors comprehensively contended that the Government plan would not be `` in the public interest as required by the mandate of this Court . The decrees proposed by the amici curiae were filed in August of 1958 . These plans , like Du Pont , contained provisions for passing the vote on Du Pont General Motors shares on to the ultimate stockholders of Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware , except that officers and directors of the three companies , their spouses , and other people living in their households , as well as other specified persons , were to be totally disenfranchised . Both plans also prohibited common directors , officers , or employees between Du Pont , Christiana , and Delaware , on the one hand , and General Motors on the other . 
It is not a medieval mental quirk or an attitude `` unnourished by sense to believe that husbands and wives should not be subjected to such a risk , or that such a possibility should not be permitted to endanger the confidentiality of the marriage relationship . While it is easy enough to ridicule Hawkins ' pronouncement in Pleas Of The Crown from a metaphysical point of view , the concept of the `` oneness of a married couple may reflect an abiding belief that the communion between husband and wife is such that their actions are not always to be regarded by the criminal law as if there were no marriage . By making inroads in the name of law enforcement into the protection which Congress has afforded to the marriage relationship , the Court today continues in the path charted by the recent decision in Wyatt v . United States , 362 U . S . 525 , where the Court held that , under the circumstances of that case , a wife could be compelled to testify against her husband over her objection . One need not waver in his belief in virile law enforcement to insist that there are other things in American life which are also of great importance , and to which even law enforcement must accommodate itself . One of these is the solidarity and the confidential relationship of marriage . The Court opinion dogmatically asserts that the husband-wife conspiracy doctrine does not in fact protect this relationship , and that hence the doctrine `` enthrones an unreality into a rule of law . I am not easily persuaded that a rule accepted by so many people for so many centuries can be so lightly dismissed . But in any event , I submit that the power to depose belongs to Congress , not to this Court . I dissent . Petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , was convicted of violating 12a of the Universal Military Training and Service Act by refusing to be inducted into the armed forces . He claims that he was denied due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment , because ( 1 ) at a hearing before a hearing officer of the Department of Justice , he was not permitted to rebut statements attributed to him by the local board , and ( 2 ) at the trial , he was denied the right to have the hearing officer report and the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as to his claim . Held : On the record in this case , the administrative procedures prescribed by the Act were fully complied with ; etitioner was not denied due process ; nd his conviction is sustained . Pp . 60-66 . ( A ) Petitioner was not denied due process in the administrative proceedings , because the statement in question was in his file , to which he had access , and he had opportunities to rebut it both before the hearing officer of the Department of Justice and before the appeal board . Pp . 62-63 . ( B ) Petitioner was not entitled to have the hearing officer notes and report , especially since he failed to show any particular need for them and he did have a copy of the Department of Justice recommendation to the appeal board . Pp . 63-64 . ( C ) Petitioner was not entitled , either in the administrative hearing at the Department of Justice or at his trial , to inspect the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation , since he was furnished a resume of it , did not challenge its accuracy , and showed no particular need for the original report . Pp . 64-66 . Haydn C . Covington argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner . Daniel M . Friedman argued the cause for the United States . On the brief were Solicitor General Rankin , Assistant Attorney General Wilkey , Beatrice Rosenberg and J . F . Bishop . Mr . Justice Clark delivered the opinion of the Court . This is a prosecution for refusal to be inducted into the armed services , in violation of the provisions of the Universal Military Training and Service Act , 62 Stat . 604 , 622 , 50 , U . S . C . App . Aj 462 ( A ) . Petitioner , who claims to be a conscientious objector , contends that he was denied due process , both in the proceedings before a hearing officer of the Department of Justice and at trial . He says that he was not permitted to rebut before the hearing officer statements attributed to him by the local board , and , further , that he was denied at trial the right to have the Department of Justice hearing officer report and the original report of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as to his claim -- all in violation of the Fifth Amendment . The trial judge decided that the administrative procedures of the Act were fully complied with and refused to require the production of such documents . Petitioner was found guilty and sentenced to 15 months ' imprisonment . The Court of Appeals affirmed . 269 F . 2d 613 . We granted certiorari in view of the importance of the questions in the administration of the Act . 361 U . S . 899 . We have concluded that petitioner claims are controlled by the rationale of Gonzales v . United States , 348 U . S . 407 ( 1955 ) , and United States v . Nugent , 346 U . S . 1 ( 1953 ) , and therefore affirm the judgment . Petitioner registered with Local Board No . 9 , Boulder , Colorado , on March 17 , 1952 . His answers to the classification questionnaire reflected that he was a minister of Jehovah Witnesses , employed at night by a sugar producer . He claimed 4-d classification as a minister of religion , devoting a minimum of 100 hours a month to preaching . On November 13 , 1952 , he was classified in Class 1-a . On November 22 , 1952 , he wrote the Board , protesting this classification . He again stated that he was `` a regular minister ; hat he was `` devoting an average of 100 hours a month to actual preaching publicly , in addition to 50 to 75 hours in other ministerial duties , and that he opposed war in any form . Thereafter he was classified 1-o . On April 1 , 1953 , after some six months of full-time `` pioneering , petitioner discontinued devoting 100 hours a month to preaching , but failed to so notify his local board . In a periodic review , the local board on July 30 , 1953 , reclassified him 1-a and upheld this classification after a personal appearance by petitioner , because of his willingness to kill in defense of his church and home . Upon administrative approval of the reclassification , he was ordered to report for induction on June 11 , 1956 , but failed to do so . He was not prosecuted , however , and his case was subsequently reopened , in the light of Sicurella v . United States , 348 U . S . 385 ( 1955 ) . He was again reclassified 1-a by the local board . There followed a customary Department of Justice hearing , at which petitioner appeared . In his report to the Attorney General , the hearing officer suggested that the petitioner be exempt only from combatant training and service . On March 21 , 1957 , however , the Department recommended approval of the 1-a classification . Its ground for this recommendation was that , while petitioner claimed before the local board August 17 , 1956 ( as evidenced by its memorandum in his file of that date ) , that he was devoting 100 hours per month to actual preaching , the headquarters of the Jehovah Witnesses reported that he was no longer doing so and , on the contrary , had relinquished both his Pioneer and Bible Student Servant positions . It reported that he now devoted only some 6-1 hours per month to public preaching and from 20 to 25 hours per month to church activities . His claim was therefore `` so highly exaggerated , the Department concluded , that it `` cast doubt upon his veracity and , consequently , upon his sincerity and good faith . The appeal board furnished petitioner a copy of the recommendation . In his answer thereto , he advised the Board that he had made no such statement in 1956 , and asserted that his only claim to `` pioneering was in 1952 . The appeal board , however , unanimously concurred in the Department recommendation . Upon return of the file to the local board , petitioner was again ordered to report for induction and this prosecution followed his failure to do so . Petitioner first contends that the Department denied him procedural due process by not giving him timely opportunity , before its final recommendation to the appeal board , to answer the statement of the local board as to his claim of devoting 100 hours to actual preaching . But the statement of the local board attributing this claim to petitioner was in his file . He admitted that he knew it was open to him at all times , and he could have rebutted it before the hearing officer . This he failed to do , asserting that he did not know it to be in his file . Apparently he never took the trouble to find out . Nevertheless he had ample opportunity to contest the statement before the appeal board . After the recommendation of the Department is forwarded to the appeal board , that is the appropriate place for a registrant to lodge his denial . This he did . We found in Gonzales v . United States , supra , that this was the controlling reason why copies of the recommendation should be furnished a registrant . We said there that it was necessary `` that a registrant be given an opportunity to rebut ( the Department ) recommendation when it comes to the Appeal Board , the agency with the ultimate responsibility for classification . 348 U . S . , at 412 . We fail to see how such procedure resulted in any prejudice to petitioner contention , which was considered by the appeal board and denied by it . As was said in Gonzales , `` it is the Appeal Board which renders the selective service determination considered ' final ' in the courts , not to be overturned unless there is no basis in fact . Estep v . United States , 327 U . S . 114 . 348 U . S . , at 412-413 . But there are other contentions which might be considered more difficult . At his trial , petitioner sought to secure through subpoena duces tecum the longhand notes of the Department hearing officer , Evensen , as well as his report thereon . Petitioner also claimed at trial the right to inspect the original Federal Bureau of Investigation reports to the Department of Justice . He alleged no specific procedural errors or evidence withheld ; or did he elaborate just what favorable evidence the Federal Bureau of Investigation reports might disclose . Section 6(j) of the Act , as we have held , does require the Department recommendation to be placed in a registrant file . Gonzales v . United States , supra . But there is nothing in the Act requiring the hearing officer report to be likewise turned over to the registrant . While the regulations formerly required that the hearing officer report be placed in the registrant file , this requirement was eliminated in 1952 . Moreover , the hearing officer report is but intradepartmental , is directed to the Attorney General and , of course , is not the recommendation of the Department . It is not essentially different from a memorandum of an attorney in the Department of Justice , of which the Attorney General receives many , and to which he may give his approval or rejection . It is but part of the whole process within the Department that goes into the making of the final recommendation to the appeal board . It is also significant that neither this report nor the hearing officer notes were furnished to the appeal board . Hence the petitioner had full opportunity to traverse the only conclusions of the Department on file with the Board . Petitioner knew that the Department recommendation was based not on the hearing officer report but on the statement of the local board in his file . Having had every opportunity to rebut the finding of the local board before both the hearing officer and the appeal board , petitioner cannot now claim that he was denied due process because he did not succeed . It appears to us that the same reasoning applies to the production of the hearing officer report and notes at the trial . In addition , petitioner has failed to show any particular need for the report and notes . While there are now allegations of the withholding of `` favorable evidence developed at the hearing and a denial of a `` full and fair hearing , no such claim was made by petitioner at any stage of the administrative process . Moreover , his testimony at trial never developed any such facts . In the light of these circumstances , as well as the fact that the issue at trial in this respect centered entirely on the Department recommendation , which petitioner repudiated but which both the appeal board and the courts below found supported by the record , we find no relevancy in the hearing officer report and notes . Finally petitioner says that he was entitled to inspect the FBI report during the proceedings before the hearing officer as well as at the trial . He did receive a resume of it -- the same that was furnished the appeal board -- and he made no claim of its inaccuracy . Even now no such claim is asserted . He bases his present contention on the general right to explore , indicating that he hopes to find some discrepancy in the resume . But this is fully answered by United States v . Nugent , supra . There we held `` that the statutory scheme for review , within the selective service system , entitles [ conscientious objectors ] to no guarantee that the FBI reports must be produced for their inspection . 346 U . S . , at 5-6 . Even if we were not bound by Nugent , petitioner here would not be entitled to the report . The recommendation of the Department -- as well as the decision of the appeal board -- was based entirely on the local board file , not on an FBI report . 
Foreign policy in its total context With this enlarged role in mind , I should like to make a few suggestions : What we in the United States do or do not do will make a very large difference in what happens in the rest of the world . We in this Department must think about foreign policy in its total context . We cannot regard foreign policy as something left over after defense policy or trade policy or fiscal policy has been extracted . Foreign policy is the total involvement of the American people with peoples and governments abroad . That means that , if we are to achieve a new standard of leadership , we must think in terms of the total context of our situation . It is the concern of the Department of State that the American people are safe and secure -- defense is not a monopoly concern of the Department of Defense . It is also the concern of the Department of State that our trading relationships with the rest of the world are vigorous , profitable , and active -- this is not just a passing interest or a matter of concern only to the Department of Commerce . We can no longer rely on interdepartmental machinery `` somewhere upstairs to resolve differences between this and other departments . Assistant Secretaries of State will now carry an increased burden of active formulation and coordination of policies . Means must be found to enable us to keep in touch as regularly and as efficiently as possible with our colleagues in other departments concerned with foreign policy . I think we need to concern ourselves also with the timeliness of action . Every policy officer cannot help but be a planning officer . Unless we keep our eyes on the horizon ahead , we shall fail to bring ourselves on target with the present . The movement of events is so fast , the pace so severe , that an attempt to peer into the future is essential if we are to think accurately about the present . If there is anything which we can do in the executive branch of the Government to speed up the processes by which we come to decisions on matters on which we must act promptly , that in itself would be a major contribution to the conduct of our affairs . Action taken today is often far more valuable than action taken several months later in response to a situation then out of control . There will of course be times for delay and inaction . What I am suggesting is that when we delay , or when we fail to act , we do so intentionally and not through inadvertence or through bureaucratic or procedural difficulties . I also hope that we can do something about reducing the infant mortality rate of ideas -- an affliction of all bureaucracies . We want to stimulate ideas from the bottom to the top of the Department . We want to make sure that our junior colleagues realize that ideas are welcome , that initiative goes right down to the bottom and goes all the way to the top . I hope no one expects that only Presidential appointees are looked upon as sources of ideas . The responsibility for taking the initiative in generating ideas is that of every officer in the Department who has a policy function , regardless of rank . Further , I would hope that we could pay attention to little things . While observing the operations of our Government in various parts of the world , I have felt that in many situations where our policies were good we have tended to ignore minor problems which spoiled our main effort . To cite only a few examples : The wrong man in the wrong position , perhaps even in a junior position abroad , can be a source of great harm to our policy ; he attitudes of a U . N . delegate who experiences difficulty in finding adequate housing in New York City , or of a foreign diplomat in similar circumstances in our Capital , can easily be directed against the United States and all that it stands for . Dozens of seemingly small matters go wrong all over the world . Sometimes those who know about them are too far down the line to be able to do anything about them . I would hope that we could create the recognition in the Department and overseas that those who come across little things going wrong have the responsibility for bringing these to the attention of those who can do something about them . If the Department of State is to take primary responsibility for foreign policy in Washington , it follows that the ambassador is expected to take charge overseas . This does not mean in a purely bureaucratic sense but in an active , operational , interested , responsible fashion . He is expected to know about what is going on among the representatives of other agencies who are stationed in his country . He is expected to supervise , to encourage , to direct , to assist in any way he can . If any official operation abroad begins to go wrong , we shall look to the ambassador to find out why and to get suggestions for remedial action . The problems of a policy officer It occurred to me that you might be interested in some thoughts which I expressed privately in recent years , in the hope of clearing up a certain confusion in the public mind about what foreign policy is all about and what it means , and of developing a certain compassion for those who are carrying such responsibilities inside Government . I tried to do so by calling to their attention some of the problems that a senior departmental policy officer faces . This means practically everybody in this room . Whether it will strike home for you or not will be for you to determine . The senior policy officer may be moved to think hard about a problem by any of an infinite variety of stimuli : an idea in his own head , the suggestions of a colleague , a question from the Secretary or the President , a proposal by another department , a communication from a foreign government or an American ambassador abroad , the filing of an item for the agenda of the United Nations or of any other of dozens of international bodies , a news item read at the breakfast table , a question to the President or the Secretary at a news conference , a speech by a Senator or Congressman , an article in a periodical , a resolution from a national organization , a request for assistance from some private American interests abroad , et cetera , ad infinitum . The policy officer lives with his antennae alerted for the questions which fall within his range of responsibility . His first thought is about the question itself : Is there a question here for American foreign policy , and , if so , what is it ? For he knows that the first and sometimes most difficult job is to know what the question is -- that when it is accurately identified it sometimes answers itself , and that the way in which it is posed frequently shapes the answer . Chewing it over with his colleagues and in his own mind , he reaches a tentative identification of the question -- tentative because it may change as he explores it further and because , if no tolerable answer can be found , it may have to be changed into one which can be answered . Meanwhile he has been thinking about the facts surrounding the problem , facts which he knows can never be complete , and the general background , much of which has already been lost to history . He is appreciative of the expert help available to him and draws these resources into play , taking care to examine at least some of the raw material which underlies their frequently policy-oriented conclusions . He knows that he must give the expert his place , but he knows that he must also keep him in it . He is already beginning to box the compass of alternative lines of action , including doing nothing . He knows that he is thinking about action in relation to a future which can be perceived but dimly through a merciful fog . But he takes his bearings from the great guidelines of policy , well-established precedents , the commitments of the United States under international charters and treaties , basic statutes , and well-understood notions of the American people about how we are to conduct ourselves , in policy literature such as country papers and National Security Council papers accumulated in the Department . He will not be surprised to find that general principles produce conflicting results in the factual situation with which he is confronted . He must think about which of these principles must take precedence . He will know that general policy papers written months before may not fit his problem because of crucial changes in circumstance . He is aware that every moderately important problem merges imperceptibly into every other problem . He must deal with the question of how to manage a part when it cannot be handled without relation to the whole -- when the whole is too large to grasp . He must think of others who have a stake in the question and in its answer . Who should be consulted among his colleagues in the Department or other departments and agencies of the Government ? Which American ambassadors could provide helpful advice ? Are private interests sufficiently involved to be consulted ? What is the probable attitude of other governments , including those less directly involved ? How and at what stage and in what sequence are other governments to be consulted ? If action is indicated , what kind of action is relevant to the problem ? The selection of the wrong tools can mean waste , at best , and at worst an unwanted inflammation of the problem itself . Can the President or the Secretary act under existing authority , or will new legislation and new money be required ? Should the action be unilateral or multilateral ? Is the matter one for the United Nations or some other international body ? For , if so , the path leads through a complex process of parliamentary diplomacy which adds still another dimension to the problem . Respect for the opinions of mankind What type of action can hope to win public support , first in this country and then abroad ? For the policy officer will know that action can almost never be secret and that in general the effectiveness of policy will be conditioned by the readiness of the country to sustain it . He is interested in public opinion for two reasons : first , because it is important in itself , and , second , because he knows that the American public cares about a decent respect for the opinions of mankind . And , given probable public attitudes -- about which reasonably good estimates can be made -- what action is called for to insure necessary support ? May I add a caution on this particular point ? We do not want policy officers below the level of Presidential appointees to concern themselves too much with problems of domestic politics in recommending foreign policy action . In the first place our business is foreign policy , and it is the business of the Presidential leadership and his appointees in the Department to consider the domestic political aspects of a problem . Mr . Truman emphasized this point by saying , `` You fellows in the Department of State don know much about domestic politics . This is an important consideration . If we sit here reading editorials and looking at public-opinion polls and other reports that cross our desks , we should realize that this is raw , undigested opinion expressed in the absence of leadership . What the American people will do turns in large degree on their leadership . We cannot test public opinion until the President and the leaders of the country have gone to the public to explain what is required and have asked them for support for the necessary action . I doubt , for example , that , 3 months before the leadership began to talk about what came to be the Marshall plan , any public-opinion expert would have said that the country would have accepted such proposals . The problem in the policy officer mind thus begins to take shape as a galaxy of utterly complicated factors -- political , military , economic , financial , legal , legislative , procedural , administrative -- to be sorted out and handled within a political system which moves by consent in relation to an external environment which cannot be under control . And the policy officer has the hounds of time snapping at his heels . 
While there should be no general age limit or restriction to one sex , there will be particular projects requiring special maturity and some open only to men or to women . The Peace Corps should not pay the expenses of a wife or family , unless the wife is also accepted for full-time Peace Corps work on the same project . There should be no draft exemption because of Peace Corps service . In most cases service in the Corps will probably be considered a ground for temporary deferment . Peace Corps volunteers obviously should not be paid what they might earn in comparable activities in the United States . Nor would it be possible in many cases for them to live in health or any effectiveness on what their counterparts abroad are paid . The guiding principle indeed should not be anything like compensation for individual services . Rather the principle should be akin to that of the allowance . Peace Corps volunteers should be given just enough to provide a minimum decent standard of living . They should live in modest circumstances , avoiding all conspicuous consumption . Wherever possible they should live with their host country counterparts . Some special health requirements might have to be met . For example , it probably will be necessary for the Corps to have authority to pay medical expenses of volunteers . Perhaps existing Public Health Service , State Department and Armed Services medical facilities can be utilized . For readjustment to the U . S . , volunteers should be given some separation allowance at the end of their overseas service , based on the length of time served . 7 . In what part of the government should the Peace Corps be established ? The idea of a Peace Corps has captured the imagination of a great many people . Support for it cuts across party , regional , ethnic and other lines . The Peace Corps , therefore , offers an opportunity to add a new dimension to our approach to the world -- an opportunity for the American people to think anew and start afresh in their participation in world development . For this , the Peace Corps should be administered by a small , new , alive agency operating as one component in our whole overseas operation . Pending the reorganization of our foreign aid structure and program , the Peace Corps should be established as an agency in the Department of State . When the aid operations are reorganized the Peace Corps should remain a semi-autonomous , functional unit . Meanwhile , the Peace Corps could be physically located in ICA facilities and depend on the State Department and ICA for administrative support and , when needed , program assistance . In this way the Peace Corps can be launched with its own identity and spirit and yet receive the necessary assistance from those now responsible for United States foreign policy and our overseas operations . 8 . How and when should the Peace Corps be launched ? The Peace Corps can either begin in very low gear , with only preparatory work undertaken between now and when Congress finally appropriates special funds for it -- or it can be launched now and in earnest by executive action , with sufficient funds and made available from existing Mutual Security appropriations to permit a number of substantial projects to start this summer . The Peace Corps should be launched soon so that the opportunity to recruit the most qualified people from this year graduating classes will not be lost . Nor should we lose the opportunity to use this summer for training on university campuses . If launched in a careful but determined way within the next few weeks , the Peace Corps could have several hundred persons in training this summer for placement next fall . Within a year or two several thousand might be in service . It can then grow steadily as it proves itself and as the need for it is demonstrated . 9 . What would the first projects be ? In the first year there should probably be considerable emphasis on teaching projects . The need here is most clearly felt and our capacity to recruit and train qualified volunteers in a short period of time is greatest . There would , however , be a variety of other skills -- medical , agricultural , engineering -- which would be called for in the first year through the private agency programs and through the provision of technician helpers to existing development projects . The first year projects should also be spread through several countries in Latin America , Africa and Asia . 10 . How will the Peace Corps be received abroad ? Although the need for outside trained manpower exists in every newly developing nation , the readiness to receive such manpower , or to receive it from the United States will vary from country to country . A certain skepticism about the coming of Americans is to be expected in many quarters . Unfriendly political groups will no doubt do everything in their power to promote active hostility . But there are indications that many developing nations will welcome Peace Corps volunteers , and that if the volunteers are well chosen , they will soon demonstrate their value and make many friends . It is important , however , that the Peace Corps be advanced not as an arm of the Cold War but as a contribution to the world community . In presenting it to other governments and to the United Nations , we could propose that every nation consider the formation of its own peace corps and that the United Nations sponsor the idea and form an international coordinating committee . We should hope that peace corps projects will be truly international and that our citizens will find themselves working alongside citizens of the host country and also volunteers from other lands . In any case , our Peace Corps personnel should be offered as technician helpers in development projects of the U . N . and other international agencies . The Peace Corps is not a diplomatic or propaganda venture but a genuine experiment in international partnership . Our aim must be to learn as much as we teach . The Peace Corps offers an opportunity to bring home to the United States the problems of the world as well as an opportunity to meet urgent host country needs for trained manpower . If presented in this spirit , the response and the results will be immeasurably better . 11 . How will it be financed ? The already appropriated funds within the discretion of the President and Secretary of State under the Mutual Security Act are the only immediately available source of financing this summer pilot programs of the Peace Corps . If it is decided to make a small shift which may be required from military aid or special assistance funds , in order to carry out the purposes of the Mutual Security Act through this new peaceful program , this will be a hopeful sign to the world . Congress should then be asked to give the Peace Corps a firm legislative foundation for the next fiscal year . Specifically , Congress should consider authorizing the Peace Corps to receive contributions from American businesses , unions , civic organizations and the public at large . For this must be the project of the whole American people . An Advisory Council of outstanding public figures with experience in world affairs should be formed to give the program continuing guidance and to afford a focal point for public understanding . Steps should also be taken to link the Food for Peace Program with the Peace Corps , so that foreign currencies accumulated by the sale of U . S . surplus food under P . L . 480 can be put to use to pay some of the host country expenses of Peace Corps personnel . The extent to which participating bodies such as U . S . voluntary agencies , universities , international organizations , and the host country or institutions in the host country can and should share the cost of the Peace Corps programs must be fully explored . 12 . Is it worth the cost and the risks ? No matter how well conceived and efficiently run , there probably will be failures . These could be costly and have a serious effect both at home and abroad . But as the popular response suggests , the potentiality of the Peace Corps is very great . It can contribute to the development of critical countries and regions . It can promote international cooperation and good will toward this country . It can also contribute to the education of America and to more intelligent American participation in the world . With thousands of young Americans going to work in developing areas , millions of Americans will become more directly involved in the world than ever before . With colleges and universities carrying a large part of the program , and with students looking toward Peace Corps service , there will be an impact on educational curriculum and student seriousness . The letters home , the talks later given by returning members of the Peace Corps , the influence on the lives of those who spend two or three years in hard work abroad -- all this may combine to provide a substantial popular base for responsible American policies toward the world . And this is meeting the world need , too , since what the world most needs from this country is better understanding of the world . The Peace Corps thus can add a new dimension to America world policy -- one for which people here and abroad have long been waiting . As you said in your State of the Union message , `` The problems are towering and unprecedented -- and the response must be towering and unprecedented as well . To the Congress of the United States : I recommend to the Congress the establishment of a permanent Peace Corps -- a pool of trained American men and women sent overseas by the U . S . Government or through private organizations and institutions to help foreign countries meet their urgent needs for skilled manpower . I have today signed an Executive Order establishing a Peace Corps on a temporary pilot basis . The temporary Peace Corps will be a source of information and experience to aid us in formulating more effective plans for a permanent organization . In addition , by starting the Peace Corps now we will be able to begin training young men and women for overseas duty this summer with the objective of placing them in overseas positions by late fall . This temporary Peace Corps is being established under existing authority in the Mutual Security Act and will be located in the Department of State . Its initial expenses will be paid from appropriations currently available for our foreign aid program . Throughout the world the people of the newly developing nations are struggling for economic and social progress which reflects their deepest desires . Our own freedom , and the future of freedom around the world , depend , in a very real sense , on their ability to build growing and independent nations where men can live in dignity , liberated from the bonds of hunger , ignorance and poverty . One of the greatest obstacles to the achievement of this goal is the lack of trained men and women with the skill to teach the young and assist in the operation of development projects -- men and women with the capacity to cope with the demands of swiftly evolving economics , and with the dedication to put that capacity to work in the villages , the mountains , the towns and the factories of dozens of struggling nations . The vast task of economic development urgently requires skilled people to do the work of the society -- to help teach in the schools , construct development projects , demonstrate modern methods of sanitation in the villages , and perform a hundred other tasks calling for training and advanced knowledge . To meet this urgent need for skilled manpower we are proposing the establishment of a Peace Corps -- an organization which will recruit and train American volunteers , sending them abroad to work with the people of other nations . This organization will differ from existing assistance programs in that its members will supplement technical advisers by offering the specific skills needed by developing nations if they are to put technical advice to work . They will help provide the skilled manpower necessary to carry out the development projects planned by the host governments , acting at a working level and serving at great personal sacrifice . There is little doubt that the number of those who wish to serve will be far greater than our capacity to absorb them . 
Thirty-three Scotty did not go back to school . His parents talked seriously and lengthily to their own doctor and to a specialist at the University Hospital -- Mr . McKinley was entitled to a discount for members of his family -- and it was decided it would be best for him to take the remainder of the term off , spend a lot of time in bed and , for the rest , do pretty much as he chose -- provided , of course , he chose to do nothing too exciting or too debilitating . His teacher and his school principal were conferred with and everyone agreed that , if he kept up with a certain amount of work at home , there was little danger of his losing a term . Scotty accepted the decision with indifference and did not enter the arguments . He was discharged from the hospital after a two-day checkup and he and his parents had what Mr . McKinley described as a `` celebration lunch at the cafeteria on the campus . Rachel wore a smart hat and , because she had been warned recently about smoking , puffed at her cigarettes through a long ivory holder stained with lipstick . Scotty father sat sprawled in his chair , angular , alert as a cricket , looking about at the huge stainless-steel appointments of the room with an expression of proprietorship . Teachers -- men who wore brown suits and had gray hair and pleasant smiles -- came to their table to talk shop and to be introduced to Scotty and Rachel . Rachel was polite , Scotty indifferent . They ate the cafeteria food with its orange sauces and Scotty gazed without interest at his food , the teachers , the heroic baronial windows , and the bright ranks of college banners . His father tried to make the food a topic . `` The blueberry pie is good , Scotty . I recommend it . He looked at his son , his face worried . Scotty murmured , `` No , thanks , so softly his father had to bend his gaunt height across the table and turn a round brown ear to him . Scotty regarded the ear and the grizzled hair around it with a moment of interest . He said more loudly , `` I full , old Pop . He had eaten almost nothing on the crested , three-sectioned plate and had drunk about half the milk in its paper container . `` He all right , Craig , Rachel said . `` I can fix him something later in the afternoon when we get home . Since his seizure , Scotty had had little appetite ; et his changed appearance , surprisingly , was one of plumpness . His face was fuller ; is lips and the usually sharp lines of his jaw had become swollen-looking . He breathed now with his mouth open , showing a whitely curving section of lower teeth ; e kept his eyes , with their puffed blurred lids , always lowered , though not , apparently , focusing . Even his neck seemed thicker and , therefore , shorter . His hands , which had been as quick as a pair of fluttering birds , were now neither active nor really relaxed . They lay on his lap , palms up , stiffly motionless , the tapered fingers a little thick at the joints . Altogether he had , since the seizure , the appearance of a boy who overindulged in food and took no exercise . He looked lazy , spoiled , a little querulous . Rachel had little to say . She greeted her husband colleagues with smiling politeness , offering nothing . Mr . McKinley , for all his sprawling and his easy familiarity , was completely alert to his son , eyes always on the still face , jumping to anticipate Scotty desires . It was a strained , silent lunch . Rachel said , `` I better get him to bed . The doctors had suggested Scotty remain most of every afternoon in bed until he was stronger . Since Mr . McKinley had to give a lecture , Rachel and Scotty drove home alone in the Plymouth . They did not speak much . Scotty gazed out at ugly gray slums and said softly , `` Look at those stupid kids . It was a Negro section of peeling row houses , store-front churches and ragged children . Rachel had to bend toward Scotty and ask him to repeat . He said , `` Nothing . And then : `` There are lots of kids around here . Scotty looked at the children , his mouth slightly opened , his eyes dull . He felt tired and full and calm . Thirty-four the days seemed short , perhaps because his routine was , each day , almost the same . He rose late and went down in his bathrobe and slippers to have breakfast either alone or with Rachel . Virginia treated him with attention and tried to tempt his appetite with special food : biscuits , cookies , candies -- the result of devoted hours in the tiled kitchen . She would hover over him and , looking like her brother , anxiously watch the progress of Scotty fork or spoon . `` You don eat enough , honey . Try to get that down . Rachel , observing , would say , `` He has to rediscover his own capacity . It l take time . Virginia and Rachel talked to each other quietly now , as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war atmosphere . Both watched Scotty constantly , Rachel without seeming to , Virginia openly , her eyes filled with concern . Scotty was neutral . He did not resent their supervision or Virginia sometimes tiring sympathy . He ate what he felt like , slept as much or as little as he pleased , and moved about the draughty rooms of the house , when he was not in bed , with slow , dubious steps , like an elderly tourist in a cathedral . His energy was gone . He was able , now , to sit for hours in a chair in the living room and stare out at the bleak yard without moving . His hands lay loosely , yet stiffly -- they were like wax hands : almost lifelike , not quite -- folded in his lap ; is mouth hung slightly open . When he was asked a question or addressed in such a way that some response was inescapable , he would answer ; f , as often happened , he had to repeat because he had spoken too softly , he would repeat his words in the same way , without emphasis or impatience , only a little louder . He had not mentioned Kate . He had not even thought about her much except once or twice at night in bed when his slowly ranging thoughts would abruptly , almost accidentally , encounter her . At these times he felt a kind of pain in his upper chest , but it was an objective pain , in no way different from others in intensity and not different in kind ; t was like the bandaged wound on the back of his head which occasionally throbbed ; t was merely another part of his weakness . He was calm , drugged , and lazy . He did not care . Rachel mentioned Kate . She said , `` I notice the girl from across the street hasn bothered to phone or visit . Scotty said , `` That all right . Kate all right . He thought about it briefly , then deliberately turned the talk to something else . Once , sitting at the front window in his parents ' room , he saw Kate come out of her house . She was with Elizabeth . They were far off and looked tiny . The heavy branches in his front yard would hide and then reveal them . They turned at the bottom of Kate steps and moved off in the direction of the park . He thought he saw -- it awakened and , for a moment , interested him -- that Elizabeth held a leash in her hand and that a round fuzzy puppy was on the end of the leash . Then they disappeared and Scotty got up and went into his own room and got into bed . By the time he was under the covers he had forgotten about seeing Kate . The doctor , since Scotty was no longer allowed to make his regular trips into town to see him , came often and informally to the house . He would sit , slim-waisted and spare , on the edge of Scotty bed , his legs crossed so elaborately that the crossed foot could tap the floor . Scotty did not mind the doctor unsmiling teasing as he used to . `` Husky young man , he said with mock distaste . `` I imagine you e always battling in school . `` I don go to school any more . `` Pardon ? The doctor had to bend close to hear ; is delicate hand , as veined as a moth wing , rested absently on Scotty chest . Scotty said the same words more loudly . `` Oh . Well , we e taking a little vacation , that all . He turned unsmilingly to Rachel . `` I think by the end of next week he could get out in the air a little . He could now but the weakness is very definite ; t would exhaust him further and unnecessarily . He l be stronger soon . His stethoscope was on the table by Scotty bed and he picked it up and wagged it at Scotty . He said fussily , `` Just keep the cap on those strong emotions . The stethoscope glinted silver in the darkening room . `` I l drop by again in a few days . Rachel stayed on after the doctor had gone . She smoothed the covers on Scotty bed and picked things up from the floor . She did not touch him . Scotty watched with disinterest . He did not speak . He had no desire to . She said , `` Do you think you l miss school ? He had noticed how formal and irritably exact Rachel had grown . He did not care . He felt her irritability did not concern him , yet he knew he would not care even if it did . He shook his head . `` We e had any number of calls about you . You could win a popularity contest at that school without any trouble . Miss Estherson called twice . She wants to pay you a visit . She says the children miss you . Apparently you were the light of their lives . Scotty shrugged slightly . Rachel came close to the bed , bent as if she would kiss him , then moved away . She was frowning . `` That doctor annoys me . She seemed to speak to herself . `` Do you suppose his self-consciousness is characteristic of the new Negro professionals or merely of doctors in general ? She turned to him again . `` Well , Mrs . Charles -- Sally -- has phoned too . She was very worried . Rachel tone was dry . `` She didn really say -- She glanced away at the floor , then swooped gracefully and picked up one of Scotty slippers . `` I mean , do you feel like seeing Kate ? Scotty said , `` I don know . It was true . He did not . There was the slight pain , but it was no different from the throbbing in his head . `` Well , there time , in any case . We l wait till you e stronger and then talk about it . She put the slipper neatly by its mate at the foot of the bed . Scotty said , `` Okay . This time Rachel kissed him lightly on the forehead . Scotty was pleased . His father was a constant visitor . Scotty would hear the front door in the evening and then his father deep slow voice ; t floated up the stairs . `` How Scotty ? And Rachel or Virginia reply : `` better . He getting plenty of rest . `` Is his appetite improved ? Or : `` Does he get exercise ? The exchange was almost invariable , and Scotty , in his bed , could hear every word of it . He never smiled . It required an energy he no longer possessed to be satirical about his father . His father would come upstairs and stand self-consciously at the foot of the bed and look at his son . After a pause , during which he studied Scotty face as if Scotty were not there and could not study him too , Mr . McKinley would ask the same questions he had asked downstairs . Scotty would reply softly and his father , apologetically , would ask him to repeat . `` I eating more , he would say . Or : `` I walk around the house a lot . `` Perhaps you should get out a little . `` I not supposed to yet . He was not irritated . He did not mind the useless , kindly questions . He looked at the lined face with vague interest ; e felt he was noting it , as if it were something he might think about when he grew stronger . Mr . McKinley examined everything with critical care , seeking something material to blame for his son illness . `` Have you got enough blankets ? And another time , without accusation : `` You never wore that scarf I bought you . 
Where their sharp edges seemed restless as sea waves thrusting themselves upward in angry motion , Papa-san sat glacier-like , his smooth solidity , his very immobility defying all the turmoil about him . `` Our objective , the colonel had said that day of the briefing , `` is Papa-san . There the objective sat , brooding over all . Gouge , burn , blast , insult it as they would , could anyone really take Papa-san ? Between the ponderous hulk and himself , in the valley over which Papa-san reigned , men had hidden high explosives , booby traps , and mines . The raped valley was a pregnant womb awaiting abortion . On the forward slope in front of his own post stretched two rows of barbed wire . At the slope base coils of concertina stretched out of eye range like a wild tangle of children hoops , stopped simultaneously , weirdly poised as if awaiting the magic of the child touch to start them all rolling again . Closer still , regular barricades of barbed wire hung on timber supports . Was it all vain labor ? Who would clean up the mess when the war was over ? Smiling at his quixotic thoughts , Warren turned back from the opening and lit a cigarette before sitting down . Tonight a group of men , tomorrow night he himself , would go out there somewhere and wait . If he were to go with White , he would be out there two days , not just listening in the dark at some point between here and Papa-san , but moving ever deeper into enemy land -- behind Papa-san -- itself . Was this what he had expected ? He hadn realized that there would be so much time to think , so many lulls . Somehow he had forgotten what he must have been told , that combat was an intermittent activity . Now he knew that the moment illuminated by the vision on the train would have to be approached . It could take place tomorrow night , or it might occur months from now . There was just too much time . Time to become afraid . White suggestion flattered , but he did not like the identity . He did not spill over with hatred for the enemy . He hadn even seen him yet Pressing his cigarette out in the earth , Warren walked to the slit and scanned the jagged hills . He saw no life , but still stood there for a time peering at the unlovely hills , his gaze continually returning to Papa-san . He had come here in order to test himself . While most of his beliefs were still unsettled , he knew that he did not believe in killing . Yet , he was here . He had come because he could not live out his life feeling that he had been a coward . There were ten men on the patrol which Sergeant Prevot led out that next night . The beaming ROK was carrying a thirty-caliber machine gun ; nother man lugged the tripod and a box of ammunition . Warren and White each carried , in addition to their own weapons and ammo , a box of ammo for the ROK machine gun . Others carried extra clips for the Browning Automatic Rifle , which was in the hands of a little Mexican named Martinez . Prevot had briefed the two new men that afternoon . `` We just sit quiet and wait , Prevot had said . `` Be sure the man nearest you is awake . If Joe doesn show up , we l all be back here at 0600 hours . Otherwise , we hold a reception . Then we pull out under our mortar and artillery cover , but nobody pulls out until I say so . Remember what I said about going out to get anybody left behind ? That still holds . We bring back all dead and wounded . At 2130 hours they had passed through the barbed wire at the point of departure . Then began the journey through their own mine fields . Mines . Ours were kinder than theirs , some said . They set bouncing betties to jump and explode at testicle level while we more mercifully had them go off at the head . Mines . Big ones and little . The crude wooden boxes of the enemy , our nicely turned gray metal disks . But theirs defied the detectors . Mines . A foot misplaced , a leg missing . Mines . All sizes : big ones , some wired to set off a whole field , little ones , hand grenade size . Booby traps to fill the head with chunks of metal . Warren tried to shake off the jumble of his fears by looking at the sky . It was dark . Prevot had said that the searchlights would be bounced off the clouds at 2230 hours , `` which gives us time to get settled in position . Because they were new men and to be sure that they didn get lost , Prevot had placed Warren and White in the center of the patrol as it filed out . His eyes now fixed on White solid figure , Warren could hear behind him the tread of another . He could also hear the stream which he had seen from his position . They were going to follow it for part of their journey . `` It safe , Prevot had said , `` and it provides cover for our noise . Soon they were picking their way along the edge of the stream which glowed in the night . On their right rose the embankment covered with brush and trees . If a branch extended out too far , each man held it back for the next , and if they met a low overhang , each warned the other . Thus , stealthily they advanced upstream ; hen they turned to the right , climbed the embankment , and walked into the valley again . There was no cover here , only grass sighing against pant-legs . And with each sigh , like a whip in the hand of an expert , the grass stripped something from Warren . The gentle whir of each footstep left him more naked than before , until he felt his unprotected flesh tremble , chilled by each new sound . The shapes of the men ahead of him lacked solidity , as if the whip had stripped them of their very flesh . The dark forms moved like mourners on some nocturnal pilgrimage , their dirge unsung for want of vocal chords . The warped , broken trees in the valley assumed wraith-like shapes . Clumps of brush that they passed were so many enchained demons straining in anger to tear and gnaw on his bones . Looming over all , Papa-san leered down at him , threatening a hundred hidden malevolencies . Off in the distance a searchlight flashed on , its beam slashing the sky . The sharp ray was absorbed by a cloud , then reflected to the earth in a softer , diffused radiance . Somewhere over there another patrol had need of light . Warren thought of all the men out that night who , like himself , had left their protective ridge and -- fear working at their guts -- picked their way into the area beyond . From the east to the west coast of the Korean peninsula was a strip of land in which fear-filled men were at that same moment furtively crawling through the night , sitting in sweaty anticipation of any movement or sound , or shouting amidst confused rifle flashes and muzzle blasts . White arm went up and Warren raised his own . The patrol was stopping . Prevot came up `` . Take that spot over there , he whispered , pointing to a small clump of blackness . `` Give me your machine gun ammo . Warren handed him the metal box and Prevot quietly disappeared down the line . Lying in the grass behind the brush clump , Warren looked about . The others likewise had hidden themselves in the grass and the brush . Over his shoulder he could see Prevot with the machine gun crew . Even at this short distance they were only vague shapes , setting up the machine gun on a small knoll so that it could fire above the heads of the rest of the patrol . Warren eased his rifle safety off and gently , slowly sneaked another clip of ammunition from one of the cloth bandoleers that marked the upper part of his body with an Aj . This he placed within quick reach . The walk and his fears had served to overheat him and his sweaty armpits cooled at the touch of the night air . Although the armored vest fitted the upper part of his body snugly , he felt no security . Figures seemed to crouch in the surrounding dark ; n the distance he saw a band of men who seemed to advance and retreat even as he watched . Certain this menace was only imaginary , he yet stared in fascinated horror , his hand sticky against the stock of his weapon . He was aware of insistent inner beatings , as if prisoners within sought release from his rigid body . Above , the glowing ivory baton of their searchlight pointed at the clouds , diluting the valley dark to a pallid light . Then the figures which held his attention became a group of shattered trees , standing like the grotesques of a medieval damnation scene . Even so , he could not ease the tension of his body ; he rough surface of the earth itself seemed to resist every attempt on his part to relax . Sensing the unseen presence of the other men in the patrol , he felt mutely united to these nine near-strangers sharing this pinpoint of being with him . He sensed something precious in the perilous moment , something akin to the knowledge gained on his bicycle trip through the French countryside , a knowledge imprisoned in speechlessness . -- In France he had puzzled the meaning of the great stone monuments men had thrown up to the sky , and always as he wandered , he felt a stranger to their exultation . They were poems in a strange language , of which he could barely touch a meaning -- enough to make his being ache with the desire for the fullness he sensed there . Brittany , that stone-gray mystery through which he traveled for thirty days , sleeping in the barns of farmers or alongside roads , had worked some subtle change in him , he knew , and it was in Brittany that he had met Pierre . Pierre had no hands ; hey had been severed at the wrists . With leather cups fitted in his handlebars , he steered his bicycle . He and Warren had traveled together for four days . They visited the shipyards at Brest and Pierre had to sign the register , vouching for the integrity of the visiting foreigner . He took the pen in his stumps and began to write . `` Wait ! Wait ! Cried the guard who ran from the hut to shout to other men standing about outside . They crowded the small room and peered over one another shoulders to watch the handless man write his name in the book . `` C st formidable , they exclaimed . `` Mais , oui . C st merveilleux . And then the questions came , eager , interested questions , and many compliments on his having overcome his infirmity . `` Doesn it ever bother you , Warren had asked , `` to have people always asking you about your hands ? `` Oh , the French are a very curious people , Pierre had laughed . `` They are also honest seekers after truth . Now the English are painfully silent about my missing hands . They refuse to mention or to notice that they are not there . The Americans , like yourself , take the fact for granted , try to be helpful , but don ask questions . I used to all three , but I think the French have the healthiest attitude . That was the day that Pierre had told Warren about the Abbey of Solesmes . `` You are looking tired and there you can rest . It will be good for you . I think , too , he said , his dark eyes mischievous , `` that you will find there some clue to the secret of the cathedrals about which you have spoken . Within two weeks Warren was ringing the bell at the abbey gate . The monk who opened the door immediately calmed his worries about his reception : `` I speak English , the old man said , `` but I do not hear it very well . He smiled and stuck a large finger with white hairs sprouting on it into his ear as though that might help . Smiling at Warren protestations , the old monk took his grip from him and led him down a corridor to a small parlor . `` Will you please wait in here . 
Mickie sat over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue . Al Little Cafe was small , dark , narrow , and filled with the mingled scent of beer , tobacco smoke , and Italian cooking . Hanging over the bar was an oil painting of a nude Al had accepted from a student at the Corcoran Gallery who needed to eat and drink and was broke . The nude was small and black-haired and elfin , and was called `` Eloise . This was one place where Moonan could go for a drink in a back booth without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down . The other patrons were taxi drivers and art students and small shopkeepers . The reporters had not yet discovered that this was his hideaway . His friend Jane was with him . She was wise enough to realize a man could be good company even if he did weigh too much and didn own the mint . She was the widow of a writer who had died in an airplane crash , and Mickie had found her a job as head of the historical section of the Treasury . This meant sorting out press clippings and the like . Jane sat receptive and interested . Mickie had a pleasant glow as he said , `` You see , both of them , I mean the President and Jeff Lawrence , are romantics . A romantic is one who thinks the world is divinely inspired and all he has to do is find the right key , and then divine justice and altruism will appear . It like focusing a camera ; he distant ship isn there until you get the focus . You know what I talking about . I sure all girls feel this way about men until they live with them . `` But when it comes to war , the Colonel knows what it is and Jeff doesn . Mr . Christiansen knows that a soldier will get the Distinguished Service Medal for conduct that would land him in prison for life or the electric chair as a civilian . He had a mean , unbroken sheer bastard in his outfit , and someone invented the name Trig for him . That to say , he was trigger happy . He shoot at anything if it was the rear end of a horse or his own sentry . He was a wiry , inscrutable , silent country boy from the red clay of rural Alabama , and he spoke with the broad drawl that others normally make fun of . But not in front of Trig . I heard of some that tried it back in the States , and he knock them clear across the room . There been a pretty bad incident back at the Marine base . A New York kid , a refugee from one of the Harlem gangs , made fun of Trig accent , and drew a knife . Before the fight was over , the Harlem boy had a concussion and Trig was cut up badly . They caught Trig stealing liquor from the officers ' mess , and he got a couple of girls in trouble . The fear of punishment just didn bother him . It wasn there . It was left out of him at birth . This is why he made such a magnificent soldier . He wasn troubled with the ordinary , rank-and-file fear that overcomes and paralyzes and sends individual soldiers and whole companies under fire running in panic . It just didn occur to Trig that anything serious would happen to him . Do you get the picture of the kind of fellow he was ? Jane nodded with a pleasant smile . `` All right . There was a sniper nest in a mountain cave , and it was picking off our men with devilish accuracy . The Colonel ordered that it be wiped out , and I suggested , ' You ask for volunteers , and promise each man on the patrol a quart of whisky , ten dollars and a week-end pass to Davao . Trig was one of the five volunteers . The patrol snaked around in back of the cave , approached it from above and dropped in suddenly with wild howls . You could hear them from our outpost . There was a lot of shooting . We knew the enemy was subdued , because a flare was fired as the signal . So we hurried over . Two of our men were killed , a third was wounded . Trig and a very black colored boy from Detroit had killed or put out of action ten guerrillas by grenades and hand-to-hand fighting . When we got there , Trig and the Negro were quarreling over possession of a gold crucifix around the neck of a wounded Filipino . The colored boy had it , and Trig lunged at him with a knife and said , ' Give that to me , you black bastard . We don ow nigras to walk on the same sidewalk with white men where I come from . `` The Negro got a bad slice on his chest from the knife wound . `` What did the Colonel do about the men ? Jane asked in her placid , interested way . Mickie laughed . `` He recommended both of them for the DSM and the Detroit fellow for the Purple Heart , too , for a combat-inflicted wound . So you see Mr . Christiansen knows what it all about . But not Jeff Lawrence . When he was in the war , he was in Law or Supplies or something like that , and an old buddy of his told me he would come down on Sundays to the Pentagon and read the citations for medals -- just like the one we sent in for Trig -- and go away with a real glow . These were heroes nine feet tall to him . Jefferson Lawrence was alone at the small , perfectly appointed table by the window looking out over the river . He had dinner and sat there over his coffee watching the winding pattern of traffic as it crossed the bridge and spread out like a serpent with two heads . Beside him was Mrs . Dalloway . He thought how this dainty , fragile older woman threading her way through the streets of Westminster on a day in June , enjoying the flowers in the shops , the greetings from old friends , but never really drawing a deep , passionate breath , was so like himself . He , and Mrs . Dalloway , too , had never permitted themselves the luxury of joys that dug into the bone marrow of the spirit . He had not because he was both poor and ambitious . Poverty imposes a kind of chastity on the ambitious . They cannot stop to grasp and embrace and sit in the back seat of cars along a dark country lane . No , they must look the other way and climb one more painful step up the ladder . He made the decision with his eyes open , or so he thought . At any cost , he must leave the dreary Pennsylvania mining town where his father was a pharmacist . And so he had , so he had . At State College , he had no time to walk among the violets on the water edge . From his room he could look out in springtime and see the couples hand in hand walking slowly , deliciously , across the campus , and he could smell the sweet vernal winds . He was not stone . He was not unmoved . He had to teach himself patiently that these traps were not for him . He must mentally pull the blinds and close the window , so that all that existed was in the books before him . At law school , the same . More of this stamping down of human emotion as a young lawyer in New York . By the time he was prosperous enough -- his goals were high -- he was bald and afraid of women . The only one who would have him was his cripple , the strange unhappy woman who became his wife . Perhaps it was right ; erhaps it was just . He had dared to defy nature , to turn his back to the Lorelei , and he was punished . Like Mrs . Dalloway , with her regrets about Peter Walsh , he had his moments of melancholy over a youth too well spent . If he had had a son , he would tell him , `` Gather ye rosebuds while ye may This same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying . But then his son could afford it . Lawrence was waiting for Bill Boxell . The Vice President had called and asked if he could see the Secretary at his home . He said the matter was urgent . The Secretary was uneasy about the visit . He did not like Boxell . He suspected something underhanded and furtive about him . Lawrence could not put his finger on it precisely , and this worried him . When you disliked or distrusted a man , you should have a reason . Human nature was not a piece of meat you could tell was bad by its smell . Lawrence stared a minute at the lighted ribbon of traffic , hoping that a clue to his dislike of the Vice President would appear . It did not . Therefore , he decided he was unfair to the young man and should make an effort to understand and sympathize with his point of view . A half hour later the Vice President arrived . He looked very carefully at every piece of furnishing , as though hoping to store this information carefully in his mind . He observed the Florentine vase in the hall , the Renoir painting in the library , as well as the long shelves of well-bound volumes ; he pattern of the Oriental rug , the delicate cut-glass chandelier . He said to the Secretary , `` I understand you came from a little Pennsylvania town near Wilkes-Barre . How did you find out about this ? He waved his arm around at the furnishings . It was not a discourteous question , Lawrence decided . This young man had so little time to learn he had to be curious ; e had to find out . The Secretary did not tell him at what cost , at what loneliness , he learned these things . He merely said , `` Any good decorator these days can make you a tasteful home . The Vice President said , `` If you hear of any names that would fix me cheap in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President home , let me know . I can do business with that kind . Again , Lawrence thought a little sadly , these were the fees of poverty and ambition . Boxell did not have the chance to grow up graciously . He had to acquire everything he was going to get in four years . They had brandy in the library . Boxell looked at Lawrence with a searching glance , the kind that a prosecuting attorney would give a man on trial . What are your weaknesses ? Where will you break ? How best to destroy your peace ? The Vice President said with a slight bluster , `` There isn anyone who loves the President more than I do . Old Chris is my ideal . At the same time , you have to face facts and realize that a man who been in the Marine Corps all his life doesn understand much about politics . What does a monk know about sex ? Lawrence listened with the practiced , deceptive calm of the lawyer , but his face was in the shadow . `` So , we have to protect the old man for his own good . You see what I mean . Congress is full of politicians , and if you want to get along with them , you have to be politic . This is why I say we just can go ahead and disarm the Germans and pull down our own defenses . Let me tell you what happened to me today . A fellow came up to me , a Senator , I don have to tell you his name , and he told me , ' I love the President like a brother , but God damn it , he crucifying me . I e got a quarter of a million Germans in my state , and those krautheads tune in on Father Werther every night , and if he tells them to go out and piss in the public square , that what they do . He telling them now to write letters to their Congressmen opposing the disarmament of Germany . And another one comes to me and he says , ' Look here , there a mill in my state employs five thousand people making uniforms for the Navy . 
The Bishop looked at him coldly and said , `` Take it or leave it ! Literally , there was nothing else to do . He was caught in a machine . But Sojourner was not easily excited or upset and said quite calmly : `` Let go and see what it like . Annisberg was about seventy-five miles west of Birmingham , near the Georgia border and on the Tallahoosa River , a small and dirty stream . The city was a center of manufacture , especially in textiles , and also because of the beauty of some of its surroundings , a residence for many owners of the great industries in north Alabama . But it had , as was usual in southern cities of this sort , a Black Bottom , a low region near the river where the Negroes lived -- servants and laborers huddled together in a region with no sewage save the river , where streets and sidewalks were neglected and where there was much poverty and crime . Wilson came by train from Birmingham and looked the city over ; he rather pleasant white city was on the hill where the chief stores were . Beyond were industries and factories . Then they went down to Black Bottom . In the midst of this crowded region was the Allen African Methodist Episcopal Church . It was an old and dirty wooden structure , sadly in need of repair . But it was a landmark . It had been there 50 years or more and everybody in town , black and white , knew of it . It had just suffered a calamity , the final crisis in a long series of calamities . For the old preacher who had been there twenty-five years was dead , and the city mourned him . He was a loud-voiced man , once vigorous but for many years now declining in strength and ability . He was stern and overbearing with his flock , but obsequious and conciliatory with the whites , especially the rich who partly supported the church . The Deacon Board , headed by a black man named Carlson , had practically taken over as the pastor grew old , and had its way with the support of the Amen corner . The characteristic thing about this church was its Amen corner and the weekly religious orgy . A knot of old worshippers , chiefly women , listened weekly to a sermon . It began invariably in low tones , almost conversational , and then gradually worked up to high , shrill appeals to God and man . And then the Amen corner took hold , re-enacting a form of group participation in worship that stemmed from years before the Greek chorus , spreading down through the African forest , overseas to the West Indies , and then here in Alabama . With shout and slow dance , with tears and song , with scream and contortion , the corner group was beset by hysteria and shivering , wailing , shouting , possession of something that seemed like an alien and outside force . It spread to most of the audience and was often viewed by visiting whites who snickered behind handkerchief and afterward discussed Negro religion . It sometimes ended in death-like trances with many lying exhausted and panting on chair and floor . To most of those who composed the Amen corner it was a magnificent and beautiful experience , something for which they lived from week to week . It was often re-enacted in less wild form at the Wednesday night prayer meeting . Wilson , on his first Sunday , witnessed this with something like disgust . He had preached a short sermon , trying to talk man-to-man to the audience , to tell them who he was , what he had done in Macon and Birmingham , and what he proposed to do here . He sympathized with them on the loss of their old pastor . But then , at mention of that name , the Amen corner broke loose . He had no chance to say another word . At the very end , when the audience was silent and breathless , a collection was taken and then slowly everyone filed out . The audience did not think much of the new pastor , and what the new pastor thought of the audience he did not dare at the time to say . During the next weeks he looked over the situation . First of all there was the parsonage , an utterly impossible place for civilized people to live in , originally poorly conceived , apparently not repaired for years , with no plumbing or sewage , with rat-holes and rot . It was arranged that he would board in the home of one of the old members of the church , a woman named Catt who , as Wilson afterward found , was briefly referred to as The Cat because of her sharp tongue and fierce initiative . Ann Catt was a lonely , devoted soul , never married , conducting a spotless home and devoted to her church , but a perpetual dissenter and born critic . She soared over the new pastor like an avenging angel lest he stray from the path and not know all the truth and gossip of which she was chief repository . Then Wilson looked over the church and studied its condition . The salary of the pastor had for years been $500 annually and even this was in arrears . Wilson made up his mind that he must receive at least $2 , 500 , but when he mentioned this to the Deacons they said nothing . The church itself must be repaired . It was dirty and neglected . It really ought to be rebuilt , and he determined to go up and talk to the city banks about this . Meanwhile , the city itself should be talked to . The streets in the colored section were dirty . There was typhoid and malaria . The children had nowhere to go and no place to play , not even sidewalks . The school was small , dark and ill-equipped . The teacher was a pliant fool . There were two liquor saloons not very far from the church , one white , that is conducted for white people with a side entrance for Negroes ; he other exclusively Negro . Undoubtedly , there was a good deal of gambling in both . On the other side of the church was a quiet , well-kept house with shutters and recently painted . Wilson inquired about it . It was called Kent House . The deacon of the church , Carlson , was its janitor . One of the leading members of the Amen corner was cook ; here were two or three colored maids employed there . Wilson was told that it was a sort of hotel for white people , which seemed to him rather queer . Why should a white hotel be set down in the center of Black Bottom ? But nevertheless it looked respectable . He was glad to have it there . The rest of Black Bottom was a rabbit warren of homes in every condition of neglect , disrepair and careful upkeep . Dives , carefully repaired huts , and nicely painted and ornamented cottages were jumbled together cheek by jowl with little distinction . The best could not escape from the worst and the worst nestled cosily beside the better . The yards , front and back , were narrow ; ome were trash dumps , some had flower gardens . Behind were privies , for there was no sewage system . After looking about a bit , Wilson discovered beyond Black Bottom , across the river and far removed from the white city , a considerable tract of land , and it occurred to him that the church and the better Negro homes might gradually be moved to this plot . He talked about it to the Presiding Elder . The Presiding Elder looked him over rather carefully . He was not sure what kind of a man he had in hand . But there was one thing that he had to stress , and that was that the contribution to the general church expenses , the dollar money , had been seriously falling behind in this church , and that must be looked after immediately . In fact , he intimated clearly that that was the reason that Wilson had been sent here -- to make a larger contribution of dollar money . Wilson stressed the fact that clear as this was , they must have a better church , a more business-like conduct of the church organization , and an effort to get this religious center out of its rut of wild worship into a modern church organization . He emphasized to the Presiding Elder the plan of giving up the old church and moving across the river . The Presiding Elder was sure that that would be impossible . But he told Wilson to `` go ahead and try . And Wilson tried . It did seem impossible . The bank which held the mortgage on the old church declared that the interest was considerably in arrears , and the real estate people said flatly that the land across the river was being held for an eventual development for white working people who were coming in , and that none would be sold to colored folk . When it was proposed to rebuild the church , Wilson found that the terms for a new mortgage were very high . He was sure that he could do better if he went to Atlanta to get the deal financed . But when this proposal was made to his Deacon Board , he met unanimous opposition . The church certainly would not be removed . The very proposition was sacrilege . It had been here fifty years . It was going to stay forever . It was hardly possible to get any argument on the subject . As for rebuilding , well , that might be looked into , but there was no hurry , no hurry at all . Wilson again went downtown to a different banker , an intelligent young white man who seemed rather sympathetic , but he shook his head . `` Reverend , he said , `` I think you don quite understand the situation here . Don you see the amount of money that has been invested by whites around that church ? Tenements , stores , saloons , some gambling , I hope not too much . The colored people are getting employment at Kent House and other places , and they are near their places of employment . When a city has arranged things like this you cannot easily change them . Now , if I were you I would just plan to repair the old church so it would last for five or ten years . By that time , perhaps something better can be done . Then Wilson asked , `` What about this Kent House which you mention ? I don understand why a white hotel should be down here . The young banker looked at him with a certain surprise , and then he said flatly : `` I afraid I can tell you anything in particular about Kent House . You l have to find out about it on your own . Hope to see you again . And he dismissed the colored pastor . It was next day that Sojourner came and sat beside him and took his hand . She said , `` My dear , do you know what Kent House is ? `` No , said Wilson , `` I don . I was just asking about it . What is it ? `` It a house of prostitution for white men with white girls as inmates . They hire a good deal of local labor , including two members of our Trustee Board . They buy some supplies from our colored grocers and they are patronized by some of the best white gentlemen in town . Wilson stared at her . `` My dear , you must be mistaken . `` Talk to Mrs . Catt , she said . And after Wilson had talked to Mrs . Catt and to others , he was absolutely amazed . This , of course , was the sort of thing that used to take place in Southern cities -- putting white houses of prostitution with colored girls in colored neighborhoods and carrying them on openly . But it had largely disappeared on account of protest by the whites and through growing resentment on the part of the Negroes as they became more educated and got better wages . But this situation of Kent House was more subtle . The wages involved were larger and more regular . The inmates were white and from out of town , avoiding local friction . The backing from the white town was greater and there was little publicity . Good wages , patronage and subscription of various kinds stopped open protest from Negroes . And yet Wilson knew that this place must go or he must go . And for him to leave this job now without accomplishing anything would mean practically the end of his career in the Methodist church , if not in all churches . 
Payne dismounted in Madison Place and handed the reins to Herold . There was a fog , which increased the darkness of the night . Two gas lamps were no more than a misleading glow . He might have been anywhere or nowhere . The pretence was that he was delivering a prescription from Dr . Verdi . Secretary of State Seward was a sick man . The idea had come from Herold , who had once been a chemist clerk . The sick were always receiving medicines . No one would question such an errand . The bottle was filled up with flour . Before Payne loomed the Old Clubhouse , Seward home , where Key had once been killed . Now it would have another death . From the outside it was an ordinary enough house of the gentry . He clomped heavily up the stoop and rang the bell . Like the bell at Mass , the doorbell was pitched too high . It was still Good Friday , after all . A nigger boy opened the door . Payne did not notice him . He was thinking chiefly of Cap . If their schedules were to synchronize , there was no point in wasting time . He pushed his way inside . For a moment the hall confused him . This was the largest house he had ever been in , almost the largest building , except for a hotel . He had no idea where Seward room would be . In the half darkness the banisters gleamed , and the hall seemed enormous . Above him somewhere were the bedrooms . Seward would be up there . He explained his errand , but without bothering much to make it plausible , for he felt something well up in him which was the reason why he had fled the army . He did not really want to kill , but as in the sexual act , there was a moment when the impulse took over and could not be downed , even while you watched yourself giving way to it . He was no longer worried . Everything would be all right . He knew that in this mood he could not be stopped . Still , the sensation always surprised him . It was a thrill he felt no part in . He could only watch with a sort of gentle dismay while his body did these quick , appalling , and efficient things . He brushed by the idiotic boy and lumbered heavily up the stairs . They were carpeted , but made for pumps and congress gaiters , not the great clodhoppers he wore . The sound of his footsteps was like a muffled drum . At the top of the stairs he ran into somebody standing there angrily in a dressing gown . He stopped and whispered his errand . Young Frederick Seward held out his hand . Panting a little , Payne shook his head . Dr . Verdi had told him to deliver his package in person . Frederick Seward said his father was sleeping , and then went through a pantomime at his father door , to prove the statement . `` Very well , Payne said . `` I will go . He smiled , but now that he knew where the elder Seward was , he did not intend to go . He pulled out his pistol and fired it . It made no sound . It had misfired . Reversing it , he smashed the butt down on Frederick Seward head , over and over again . It was the first blow that was always difficult . After that , violence was exultantly easy . He got caught up into it and became a different person . Only afterwards did an act like that become meaningless , so that he would puzzle over it for days , whereas at the time it had seemed quite real . The nigger boy fled down the stairs , screaming , `` Murder . It was not murder at all . Payne was more methodical than that . He was merely clearing a way to what he had to do . He ran for the sick room , found his pistol was broken , and threw it away . A knife would do . From childhood he had known all about knives . Someone blocked the door from inside . He smashed it in and tumbled into darkness . He saw only dimly moving figures , but when he slashed them they yelled and fled . He went for the bed , jumped on it , and struck where he could , repeatedly . It was like finally getting into one own nightmares to punish one dreams . Two men pulled him off . Nobody said anything . Payne hacked at their arms . There was a lady there , in a nightdress . He would not have wanted to hurt a lady . Another man approached , this one fully dressed . When the knife went into his chest , he went down at once . `` I mad , shouted Payne , as he ran out into the hall . `` I mad , and only wished he had been . That would have made things so much easier . But he was not mad . He was only dreaming . He clattered down the stairs and out of the door . Somewhere in the fog , the nigger boy was still yelling murder . One always wakes up , even from one own dreams . The clammy air revived him . Herold , he saw , had fled . Well , one did not expect much of people like Herold . He unhitched his horse , walked it away , mounted , and spurred it on . The nigger boy was close behind him . Then the nigger boy turned back and he was alone . He rode on and on . He had no idea where he was . After some time he came to an open field . An open field was better than a building , that was for sure , so he dismounted , turned off the horse , and plunged through the grass . He felt curiously sleepy , the world seemed far away ; e knew he should get to Cap , but he didn know how . He was sure , for he had done as he was told , hadn he ? Cap would find him and take care of him . So choosing a good tree , he clambered up into it , found a comfortable notch , and curled up in it to sleep , like the tousled bear he was , with his hands across his chest , as though surfeited with honey . Violence always made him tired , but he was not frightened . In Boston , Edwin Booth was winding up a performance of A New Way To Pay Old Debts . It was a part so familiar to him that he did not bother to think about it any more . Acting soothed him . On a stage he always knew what to do , and tonight , to judge by the applause , he must be doing it better than usual . As Sir Giles Overreach ( how often had he had to play that part , who did not believe a word of it ) , he raised his arm and declaimed : `` Where is my honour now ? That was one of the high spots of the play . The audience , as usual , loved it . He was delighted to see them so happy . If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing at this hour , with her Aunt Asia , in Philadelphia . Everyone is ambivalent about his profession , if he has practised it long enough , but there were still moments when he loved the stage and all those unseen people out there , who might cheer you or boo you , but that was largely , though not entirely , up to you . They made the world seem friendly somehow , though he knew it was not . 7 , Wilkes was quite right about one thing . Laura Keene had been in the green room . The commotion had brought her into the wings . Since she could not act , one part suited her as well as any other , and so she was the first person to offer Mr . Lincoln a glass of water , holding it up to the box , high above her head , to Miss Harris , who had asked for it . She had been one of the first to collect her wits . It was not so much that the shot had stunned the audience , as that they had been stunned already . Most of them had seen Our American Cousin before , and unless Miss Keene was on stage , there was not much to it . The theatre was hot and they were drugged with boredom . The stage had been empty , except for Harry Hawk , doing his star monologue . The audience was fond of Harry Hawk , he was a dear , in or out of character , but he was not particularly funny . At the end of the monologue the audience would applaud . Meanwhile it looked at the scenery . `` Well , I guess I know enough to turn you inside out , you sockdologizing old mantrap ! Said Trenchard , otherwise Hawk . There was always a pause here , before the next line . That was when the gun went off . Yet even that explosion did not mean much . Guns were going off all over Washington City these days , because of the celebrations , and the theatre was not soundproof . Then the audience saw a small , dim figure appear at the edge of the Presidential box . `` Sic semper tyrannis , it said mildly . Booth had delivered his line . Behind him billowed a small pungent cloud of smoke . They strained forward . They had not heard what had been said . They had been sitting too long to be able to stand up easily . The figure leapt from the box , almost lost its balance , the flag draped there tore in the air , the figure landed on its left leg , fell on its hands , and pressed itself up . Harry Hawk still had his arm raised towards the wings . His speech faltered . He did not lower his arm . The figure was so theatrically dressed , that it was as though a character from some other play had blundered into this one . The play for Saturday night was to be a benefit performance of The Octoroon . This figure looked like the slave dealer from that . But it also looked like a toad , hopping away from the light . There was something maimed and crazy about its motion that disturbed them . Then it disappeared into the wings . Harry Hawk had not shifted position , but he at last lowered his arm . Mrs . Lincoln screamed . There was no mistaking that scream . It was what anyone who had ever seen her had always expected her to do . Yet this scream had a different note in it . That absence of an urgent self-indulgence dashed them awake like a pail of water . Clara Harris , one of the guests in the box , stood up and demanded water . Her action was involuntary . When something unexpected happened , one always asked for water if one were a woman , brandy if one were a man . Mrs . Lincoln screamed again . In the Presidential box someone leaned over the balustrade and yelled : `` He has shot the President ! That got everybody up . On the stage , Harry Hawk began to weep . Laura Keene brushed by him with the glass of water . The crowd began to move . In Washington City everyone lived in a bubble of plots , and one death might attract another . It was not exactly panic they gave way to , but they could not just sit there . The beehive voices , for no one could bear silence , drowned out the sound of Mrs . Lincoln weeping . At the rear of the auditorium , upstairs , some men tried to push open the door to the box corridor . It would not give . A Dr . Charles Taft clambered up on the stage and got the actors to hoist him up to the box . In the audience a man named Ferguson lost his head and tried to rescue a little girl from the mob , on the same principle which had led Miss Harris to demand water . Someone opened the corridor door from the inside , and called for a doctor . Somehow Dr . Charles Leale was forced through the mob and squeezed out into the dingy corridor . He went straight to the Presidential box . As usual , Mrs . Lincoln had lost her head , but nobody blamed her for doing so now . There was a little blood on the hem of her dress , for the assassin had slashed Miss Harris companion , Major Rathbone , with a knife . Rathbone said he was bleeding to death . By the look of him he wasn that far gone . 
With a sneer , the man spread his legs and , a third time , confronted them . Once more , Katie reared , and whinnied in fear . For a moment , boy and mount hung in midair . Stevie twisted and , frantically , commanded the mare to leap straight ahead . But the stranger was nimbler still . With a bold arm , he dared once more to obstruct them . Katie reared a third time , then , trembling , descended . The stranger leered . Seizing the bridle , he tugged with all his might and forced Katie to her knees . It was absurd . Stevie could feel himself toppling . He saw the ground coming up -- and the stranger head . With incredible ferocity , he brought his fists together and struck . The blow encountered silky hair and hard bone . The man uttered a weird cry , spun about , and collapsed in the sand . Katie scrambled to her feet , Stevie agilely retaining his seat . Again Katie reared , and now , wickedly , he compelled her to bring her hooves down again and again upon the sprawled figure of the stranger . He could feel his own feet , iron-shod , striking repeatedly until the body was limp . He gloated , and his lips slavered . He heard himself chortling . They rode around and around to trample the figure into the sand . Only the top of the head , with a spot bare and white as a clamshell , remained visible . Stevie was shouting triumphantly . A train hooted . Instantly , he chilled . They were pursuing him . He was frightened ; is fists clutched so tightly that his knuckles hurt . Then Katie stumbled , and again he was falling , falling ! `` Stevie ! Stevie ! His mother was nudging him , but he was still falling . His head hung over the boards of Katie stall ; efore it was sprawled the mangled corpse of the bearded stranger . `` Stevie , wake up now ! We e nearly there . He had been dreaming . He was safe in his Mama arms . The train had slowed . Houses winked as the cars rolled beside a little depot . `` Po ' Chavis ! The trainman called . He came by and repeated , `` Po ' Chavis ! Chapter 6 Bong ! Bong ! Startled him awake . The room vibrated as if a giant hand had rocked it . Bong ! A dull boom and a throbbing echo . The walls bulged , the floor trembled , the windowpanes rattled . He stared at the far morning , expecting a pendulum to swing across the horizon . Bong ! He raced to the window and yanked at the sash . Bong ! The wood was old , the paint alligatored . Bong ! A fresh breeze saluted him . Six o lock ! He put his head out . There was the slate roof of the church ; vy climbed the red brick walls like a green-scaled monster . The clock which had struck presented an innocent face . In the kitchen Mama was wiping the cupboards . `` There a tower and a steeple on the church a million feet high . And the loudest clock in the whole world ! `` I know , Stephen , she smiled . `` They say that our steeple is one hundred and sixty-two feet high . The clock you heard strike -- it really the town clock -- was installed last April by Mrs . Shorter , on her birthday . He dressed , and sped outdoors . He crossed Broome Street to Orange Square . The steeple leaned backward , while the church advanced like a headless creature in a long , shapeless coat . The spire seemed to hold up the sky . Port Jervis , basking in the foothills , was the city of God . The Dutch Reformed Church , with two steeples and its own school was on Main Street ; he Episcopal Church was one block down Sussex Street ; he Catholic Saint Mary Church , with an even taller steeple and a cross on top , stood on Ball Street . The Catholics had the largest cemetery , near the Neversink River where Main Street ran south ; tevie whistled when he passed these alien grounds . God was everywhere , in the belfry , in the steeple , in the clouds , in the trees , and in the mountains hulking on the horizon . Somewhere , beyond , where shadows lurked , must be the yawning pit of which Papa preached and the dreadful Lake of Fire . So , walking in awe , he became familiar with God , who resided chiefly in Drew Centennial Church with its high steeple and clock . There was no church like Drew Church , no preacher like Papa , who was intimate with Him , and could consign sinners to hellfire . To know God he must follow in Papa footsteps . He was fortunate , and proud . The veterans , idling on their benches in the Square , beneath the soldiers ' monument , got to their feet when Papa approached : `` Morning , Reverend ! His being and His will -- Stevie could not divide God from his Papa -- illumined every parish face , turned the choir into a band of angels , and the pulpit into the tollgate to Heaven . `` We have nine hundred and eleven members in our charge , Mama announced , `` and three hundred and eighty Sunday-school scholars . When Papa went out to do God work , Stevie often accompanied him in the buggy , which was drawn by Violet , the new black mare . Although they journeyed westerly as far as Germantown , beyond the Erie roundhouse and the machine shop , and along the Delaware and Hudson Canal , and northward to Brooklyn , below Point Peter , he could see the church spire wherever he looked back . Sometimes they went south and rolled past the tollhouse -- `` Afternoon , Reverend ! -- and crossed the suspension bridge to Matamoras ; hat was Pennsylvania . In the Delaware River , three long islands were overgrown with greening trees and underbrush . South of Laurel Grove Cemetery , and below the junction of the Neversink and the Delaware , was the Tri-State Rock , from which Stevie could spy New Jersey and Pennsylvania , as well as New York , simply by spinning around on his heel . On these excursions , Papa instructed him on man chief end , which was his duty to God and his own salvation . However , a boy lively eyes might rove . Where Cuddleback Brook purled into the Neversink was a magnificent swimming hole . Papa pointed a scornful finger at the splashing youth : `` Idle recreation ! Stevie saw no idols ; t troubled him that he couldn always see what Papa saw . He was torn between the excitement in the sun-inflamed waters and a little engine chugging northward on the Monticello Branch . `` Where you been today ? Ludie inquired every evening , pretending that he did not care . `` He l make a preacher out of you ! `` No , he won ! Stevie flared . `` Not me ! `` Somebody got to be a preacher in the family . He made a will and last testament before we left Paterson . I heard them ! Uncle and Aunt Howe were the witnesses . `` Will he die ? `` Everybody does . Ludie could be hateful . To speak of Papa dying was a sin . It could never happen as long as God was alert and the Drew steeple stood guard with its peaked lance . Stevie was constantly slipping into the church . He pulled with all his strength at the heavy , brass-bound door , and shuffled along the wainscoted wall . The cold , mysterious presence of God was all around him . At the end of a shaft of light , the pews appeared to be broad stairs in a long dungeon . Far away , standing before a curtained window in the study room , was his father , hands tucked under his coattails , and staring into the dark church . The figure was wreathed in an extraordinary luminescence . The boy shuddered at the deathly pale countenance with its wrinkles and gray hair . Would Papa really die ? The mouth was thin-lipped and wide , the long cleft in the upper lip like a slide . When Papa slender fingers removed the spectacles , there were red indentations on the bridge of the strong nose . `` It time you began to think on God , Stephen . Perhaps one day He will choose you as He chose me , long ago . Therefore , give Him your affection and store up His love for you . Open your heart to Him and pray , Stephen , pray ! For His mercy and His guidance to spare you from evil and eternal punishment in the Lake of Fire . Stevie had heard these words many times , yet on each occasion they caused him to tremble . For he feared the Lake of Fire . He strove to think of God and His eternal wrath ; e must pray to be spared . Papa was disappointed that none of the brothers had heard the Call . Not George , Townley , or Ted , certainly not Ludie . Burt was at Hackettstown and Will at Albany Law School , where they surely could not hear it . Someday God would choose him . He would hear the Call and would run to tell Papa . The stern face would relax , the black-clad arms would embrace him , `` My son ! Yet how might he know the Call when it came ? Probably , as in Scriptures , a still , small voice would whisper . It would summon him once ; f he missed it , never again . What if it came when he was playing , or was asleep and dreaming ? He must not fail to hear it . He was Papa chosen ; herefore , nothing but good could happen to him , even in God wrathful storms . When the skies grew dark and thunder rolled across the valley , he was unafraid . Aggie might fly into a closet , shut the door and bury her head in the clothes ; e dared to wait for the lightning . Lightning could strike you blind if you were a sinner ! But he was good . He clenched his fists and faced the terror . Thunder crashed ; arrels tumbled down the mountainsides , and bounced and bounced till their own fury split them open . Lightning might strike the steeples of the other churches ; ot of Drew Church . A flash illumined the trees as a crooked bolt twigged in several directions . Violet whinnied from the stable . He ran out into the downpour , sped across the yard and into the buggy room . `` Don be afraid , Violet ! He shouted , and was aghast at the echoes . `` Don you be afraid ! He would save her . If there was a fire or a flood he would save Mama first and Violet next . Drenched and shaking , he stood near the sweet-smelling stall and dared to pat her muzzle . `` Don you be afraid , Violet ! After the storm , the sky cleared blue and cool , and fragrant air swept the hills . When the sun came out , Stevie strode proudly into Orange Square , smiling like a landlord on industrious tenants . The fountain had brimmed over , the cannon were wet , the soldiers ' monument glistened . Even before the benches had dried , the Civil War veterans were straggling back to their places . The great spire shone as if the lightning had polished it . He jumped . The pointed shadow had nearly touched him . He trailed Ludie to the baseball game in the lot on Kingston Street near the Dutch Reformed . `` Go on home ! Ludie screeched at him . `` Someone l tell Papa ! No one told on Ludie , not even when he slipped live grasshoppers into the mite-box . Ludie did as he pleased . Ludie took his slingshot and climbed to the rooftop to shoot at crows . Ludie chewed roofer tar . Ludie had a cigar box full of marbles and shooters , and a Roman candle from last Fourth of July . Ludie hopped rides on freight cars , and was chased by Mr . Yankton , the railroad guard . He came home overheated , ran straight to the ice-chest , and gulped shivery cold water . Stevie envied him . That Ludie ! He , too , cocked his cap at a jaunty angle , jingled marbles in his pocket , and swaggered down Main Street . On the Christophers ' lawn , little girls in white pinafores were playing grownups at a tea party . A Newfoundland sat solemnly beside a doghouse half his size . Stevie yearned for a dog . He wondered whether God had a dog in the sky . He meandered down Pike Street , past the First National Bank with its green window shades . He crossed the tracks to Delaware House , where ladies in gay dresses and men in straw boaters and waxed mustaches crowded the verandah . A tall lady , with a ruffled collar very low on her bosom , turned insolent green eyes upon him . She was taller than Aggie . She was so beautiful with her rosy mouth and haughty air that she had to be wicked . Fiddles screeched ; piano tinkled . `` P . J . -- as Ludie called the town -- was crowded with summer people who came to the mountains to escape the heat in the big cities . They stayed at hotels and boardinghouses , or at private homes . Rich people went to Delaware House , Opera House , American House or Fowler House . 
If the crummy bastard could write ! That how it should be . It those two fucken niggers ! Krist , I wish they could write ! Nigger pussy . He thought of sweet wet nigger pussy . Oh , sweet land of heaven , haint there just nothin like sweet nigger pussy ! He thought of her , the first one . He had caught her coming out of the shack . She was a juicy one . Oh how they bounced ! Fresh , warm , sweet and juicy , sweet lovin sixteen , she was . Man , how I love nigger pussy ! The snow came a little faster now , he noted . He thought of Joe Harris , the nigger who had gone after his sister . He chuckled , the memory vivid . Jee-sus , We Fixed him ! Yooee , we fixed him ! The snow again . If only the fucken weather wasn so lousy ! Goddamn niggers , Lord . What I have to put up with ! Sonuvabitch , I can figure out what in hell for they went and put niggers in my squad for . Only one worth a shit , and that Brandon . He ain so bad . His thoughts turned to other things . The big shock everybody had when they found ol Slater and those others done for . Kaboom for . He had been pretty scared himself , wondering what the hell was coming off . But he soon saw which way the ball was bouncing . Soon came back to his senses . `` I soon came back to my senses , he said , aloud , to the young blizzard , proudly , drawing himself up , as if making a report to some important superior . I was the first to get my squad on the ball , and anybody thinkin it was easy is pretty damn dumb . Look at thum . That goddamn redheader was the worst . He kept sayin , not me , not me , I don wanta wind up like em . But I told him , goddammit . `` I told him , he said aloud They l get the guys that done it . That l put the place back to normal . Normal , by God . Maybe it a good thing it happened . Maybe they l stop it now , once for all . Clean the place up . They e doin it now . I hear the whole bunch is croakin out in the snow . They l get the guys that done it . There was something troubling him though : as yet they hadn Five days . Keerist . Prickly twinges of annoyance ran through him . His eyes blinked hard , snapping on and squashing some bad things that were trying to push their way into him . A tune began to whirl inside his head . One of his favorites : `` Guitar Boogie . It always came on , faithfully , just like a radio or juke box , whenever he started to worry too much about something , when the bad things tried to push their way into him . The music drove them off , or away , and he was free to walk on air in a very few moments , humming and jiving within , beating the rhythm within . He glowed with anticipation about what would happen to the culprits when they caught them . Turn the bastards over to me -- to me and my boys -- no nigger ever got what would be comin to them -- reactionary bastards . He had never heard the word reactionary before his life as a POW began . It was a word he was proud of , a word that meant much to him , and he used it with great pleasure , almost as if it were an exclusive possession , and more : he sensed himself to be very highly educated , four cuts above any of the folks back home . `` Four cuts at least , he chuckled to himself , `` and I owe it all to them . The word also made him feel hate , sincere hate , for those so labeled . He used it very effectively when he wanted to get his squad on the ball . It came up again and again in the discussion sessions . Lousy Reactionary bastards been tryin to fuck up the Program for months . Months . Hired , hard lackeys of the Warmongering capitalists . Not captured , sent here . To fuck up the program . You guys remember that . Remember that He heard himself haranguing them . He saw himself before them delivering the speech . He laughed , suddenly , feeling a surge of power telling him of his hold over them , seeing himself before them , receiving utmost respect and attention . One day , Ching had told him ( smiling , patting him on the back ) as they walked to the weekly conference of squad leaders , `` Keep it up , your squad is good , one of the best , keep it up , keep up the good work . He would ! That was really something , coming from Ching . `` Really something , he said , aloud . Dirty Reactionary bastards comin down here in the night and bumpin off ol Slater and those other poor bastards . `` They l get them by God and let them bring them down here to me , just let them , God , I l slice their balls right off . His arm moved swiftly , violently , once , twice . He felt intense satisfaction . He was tingling within . Before him , mutilated , bleeding to death , they lay . It was as if it had been done . `` Bastards , he said aloud , spitting on them . He halted , and looked around . Rivers of cold sweat were suddenly unleashed within him . The thought came back , the one nagging at him these past four days . He tried to stifle it . But the words were forming . He knew he couldn . He braced himself . Somebody l hafta start thinkin . He fought it , seeking to kill the last few words , but on they came out . He was trembling , a strange feeling upon him , fully expecting some catastrophe to strike him dead on the spot . But it didn . And he took heart ; he final word came forth . Now he heard it , fully ; ` bout takin his place He listened , waited , nothing happened . He felt good . His old self . The music arrived , taking him its rhythm . Stroked him , snaked all through him , the lyrics lifted him , took him from one magic isle to another , stopping briefly at each Brandon . He is good . Damn good . But a nigger . Johnson . Jesus , the guy says he is trying . But he isn with it , not at all with it . When I talked to Ching about it , he said , Everyone can learn , if he is not a Reactionary or lazy . No one is stupid . That what he said . He oughta know . It is plain as hell Johnson is no reactionary . So you e not tryin , Johnson , you bastard you . He looked over at him , lying there , asleep , and he felt a wave of revulsion . How he loathed him . Sleepy-eyed , soft-spoken Johnson , Biggest thorn in my side of the whole fucken squad . He was the guy what always goofed at Question Time . Why couldn they have dumped him off on someone else ? Why me ? Why didn the damn Reactionaries bump him off ? Why Slater ? Like a particle drawn to a magnet he returned to that which was pressing so hard in his mind . The music surged up , but it failed to check it . Who is the man to take His place ? The guy with most on the Ball . Most on the ball . Handle men . Thoroughly Wised up . Knows the score With a supreme effort , he broke it off . He turned to the window again . A gnawing and gnashing within him . The snow was tumbling down furiously now . Huge glob-flakes hitting the ground , piling higher and higher . He stared at it , amazed , alarmed . The whole fucken sky cavin in ! Keeeerist ! Lookit it ! Cover the whole building , bury us all , by nightfall . Jesus ! Somebody , got to be somebody If I don put my two cents in soon , somebody else will I know they e waitin only for one thing : for the bastards what done it to be nailed . Maybe they already got them . He was again tingling with pleasure , seeing himself clearly in Slater shoes . Top dog , sleeping and eating right there with the Staff . Ching , Tien , all of them . Top dog . Poor ol Slater . Jesus , imagine , the crummy bastards , they l get em , they l get what comin to em . He whirled about suddenly . It was nothing , though his heart was thumping wildly . Somebody was up . That was all . `` Boy , you e stirrin early , a sleepy voice said . `` Yehhh , said Coughlin , testily , eyeing him up and down . `` Lookit that come down , willya , said the man , scratching himself , yawning . `` Yehhh , said Coughlin , practically spitting on him . The man moved away . That the way . They l toe the line . Goddamn it . Keep the chatter to a minimum , short answers , one word , if possible . Less bull the more you can do with em . That Brown trouble . All he does is to bullshit with his squad , and they are the stupidest bastards around . Just about to get their asses kicked into hut Seven . Plenty of room there now . All those dumb 8-Balls croaked . You can do anything with these dumb fucks if you know how . Anything . They cut their mothers ' belly open . Give um the works . See , he already snapping it up , the dumb jerk . Coughlin grinned , feeling supremely on top of things . He watched the snow once again . It infuriated him . It made no sense to him . He whirled around , suddenly hot all over , finding the man who had been standing before him a few moments back , nailing him to the spot on which he now stood , open-mouthed . `` You , Listen ! -- name William Foster Four Internal Contradictions in Capitalism . Quick -- Quick -- now ! The man shrank before the hot fury , searching frantically for the answer . Finnegan woke up . There was a hell of a noise this time of morning . He stared out the window . For Christ sake ! The whole fucken sky caved in ! He looked for the source of the noise that had awakened him . It was that prick Coughlin . What the hell was he up to now ? Why didn he drop dead ? How did they miss him when they got Slater ? How ? Then he was asking himself the usual early morning questions : What the Hell am I doin here ? Is this a nut-house ? Am I nuts ? Is this for real ? Am I dreamin ? From somewhere in the hut came Coughlin voice . `` How long did you study ? How long , buddy ? `` For Christ sake ! A voice pleaded . `` Don Christsake me , buddy ! Just answer . C on -- on ! I no hero . Did I start the damn war ? Automatically , Finnegan started going over today lesson . Capitalism rots from the core . Did I start the damn war ? Who did ? That a good one . I thought I knew . Why don Uncle Sam mind his own fucken business ? I l bet both together did . I bet . So fuck them both . Goddamn . Goddammit . Just let me go home to Jersey , back to the shore , oh , Jesus , the shore . The waves breakin in on you and your girl at night there on the warm beach in the moonlight . If I hafta do this to stay alive by God I l do it . I hated the goddamn army from the first day I got in anyhow . All pricks like Coughlin run it anyway , one way or another . Fuck them . He rolled over and tried to shut out the noise , now much louder . He snuggled into the blanket . Brandon dreamed . He was sitting on top of a log which was spinning round and around in the water . A river , wide as the Missouri , where it ran by his place . The log was spinning . But he was not . So what ? Why should I be spinning just because the goddamn log is spinning ? ( he asked this out loud , but no one heard it over the other noise in the hut ) . Over on the bank , the west bank , a man stood , calling to him . He couldn make out what he was saying . No doubt it had to do with the log . Why should he be concerned ? 
Rousseau is so persuasive that Voltaire is almost convinced that he should burn his books , too . But while the two men are riding into the country , where they are going to dinner , they are attacked in the dark of the forest by a band of thieves , who strip them of everything , including most of their clothes . `` You must be a very learned man , says Voltaire to one of the bandits . `` A learned man ? The bandit laughs in his face . But Voltaire perseveres . He goes to the chief himself . `` At what university did you study ? He asks . He refuses to believe that the bandit chief never attended a higher institution . `` To have become so corrupt , he says , `` surely you must have studied many arts and sciences . The chief , annoyed by these questions , knocks Voltaire down and shouts at him that he not only never went to any school , but never even learned how to read . When finally the two bedraggled men reach their friend home , Voltaire fears are once again aroused . For it is such a distinguished place , with such fine works of art and such a big library , that there can be little doubt but that the owner has become depraved by all this culture . To Voltaire surprise , however , their host gives them fresh clothes to put on , opens his purse to lend them money and sits them down before a good dinner . Immediately after dinner , however , Rousseau asks for still another favor . Could he have pen and paper , please ? He is in a hurry to write another essay against culture . Such was the impromptu that Voltaire gave to howls of laughter at Sans Souci and that was soon circulated in manuscript throughout the literary circles of Europe , to be printed sometime later , but with the name of Timon of Athens , the famous misanthrope , substituted for that of Rousseau . How cruel ! But at the same time how understandable . How could the rich , for whom life was made so simple , ever understand the subterfuges , the lies , the frauds , the errors , sins and even crimes to which the poor were driven in their efforts to overcome the great advantages the rich had in the race of life ? How , for example , could a Voltaire understand the strange predicament in which a Rousseau would find himself when , soon after the furor of his first Discourse , he acquired still another title to fame ? This time as a musician . As a composer . Ever since he had first begun to study music and to teach it , Rousseau had dreamed of piercing through to fame as the result of a successful opera . But his facility in this genre was not great . And his efforts to get a performance for his Gallant Muses invariably failed . And for good reasons . His operatic music had little merit . But then one day , while on a week visit to the country home of a retired Swiss jeweler , Rousseau amused the company with a few little melodies he had written , to which he attached no great importance . He was really amazed to discover the other guests so excited about these delicate little songs . `` Put a few such songs together , they urged him . `` String them onto some sort of little plot , and you l have a delightful operetta . He didn believe them . `` Nonsense , he said . `` This is the sort of stuff I write and then throw away ! `` Heaven forbid ! Cried the ladies , enchanted by his music . `` You must make an opera out of this material . And they wouldn leave off arguing and pleading until he had promised . Oh , the irony and the bitterness of it ! That after all his years of effort to become a composer , he should now , now when he was still stoutly replying to the critics of his Discourse on the Arts and Sciences , be so close to a success in music and have to reject it . Or at least appear to reject it ! But what else could he do ? You couldn on the one hand decry the arts and at the same time practice them , could you ? Well , yes , perhaps in literature , since you could argue that you couldn keep silent about your feelings against literature and so were involved in spite of yourself . But now music too ? No . That would be too much ! And the fault , of course , was Rameau . The fault was Rameau and that of the whole culture of this Parisian age . For it was Rameau type of music that he had been trying to write , and that he couldn write . These little songs , however , were sweet nothings from the heart , tender memories of his childhood , little melodies that anyone could hum and that would make one want to weep . But no . He couldn appear as a composer now . That glory , craved for so long , was now forbidden to him . Still , just for the ladies , and just for this once , for this one weekend in the country , he would make a little piece out of his melodies . The ladies were delighted and Jean Jacques was applauded . And everyone went to work to learn the parts which he wrote . But then , after the little operetta had been given its feeble amateur rendering , everyone insisted that it was too good to be lost forever , and that the Royal Academy of Music must now have the manuscript in order to give it the really first-rate performance it merited . Rousseau was aware that he must seem like a hypocrite , standing there and arguing that he could not possibly permit a public performance . The ladies especially couldn understand what troubled him . A contradiction ? Bah , what was a contradiction in one life ? Every woman has had the experience of saying no when she meant yes , and saying yes when she meant no . Rousseau had to admit that though he couldn agree to a public performance , he would indeed , just for his own private satisfaction , dearly love to know how his work would sound when done by professional musicians and by trained voices . `` I simply like to know if it is as good as you kind people seem to think , he said . Duclos , the historian , pointed out to Jean Jacques that this was impossible . The musicians of the Royal Opera would not rehearse a work merely to see how it would sound . Merely to satisfy the author curiosity . Rousseau agreed . But he recalled that Rameau had once had a private performance of his opera Armide , behind closed doors , just for himself alone . Duclos understood what was bothering Rousseau : that the writer of the Prosopopoeia of Fabricius should now become known as the writer of an amusing little operetta . That would certainly be paradoxical . But Duclos thought he saw a way out . `` Let me do the submitting to the Royal Academy , he suggested . `` Your name will never appear . No one will even suspect that it is your work . To that Rousseau could agree . But now what crazy twists and turns of his emotions ! Afraid at one and the same time that his work might be turned down -- which would be a blow to his pride even though no one knew he was the author -- and that the work would be accepted , and then that his violent feelings in the matter would certainly betray how deeply concerned he was in spite of himself . And how anxious this lover of obscurity was for applause ! And thus torn between his desire to be known as the composer of a successful opera and the necessity of remaining true to his proclaimed desire for anonymity , Rousseau suffered through several painful weeks . All these emotions were screwed up to new heights when , after acceptance and the first rehearsals , there ensued such a buzz of excitement among Parisian music lovers that Duclos had to come running to Rousseau to inform him that the news had reached the superintendent of the King amusements , and that he was now demanding that the work be offered first at the royal summer palace of Fontainebleau . Imagine the honor of it ! `` What was your answer ? Jean Jacques asked , striving to appear unimpressed . `` I refused , Duclos said . `` What else could I do ? Monsieur De Cury was incensed , of course . But I said I would first have to get the author permission . And I was certain he would refuse . How infuriating all this was ! Why had not this success come to him before he had plunged into his Discourse , and before he had committed himself to a life of austerity and denial ? Now , when everything was opening up to him -- even the court of Louis 15 ! -- he had to play a role of self-effacement . Back and forth Duclos had to go , between M . De Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke D umont and Jean Jacques again , as his little operetta , The Village Soothsayer , though still unperformed , took on ever more importance . And of course the news of who the composer was did finally begin to get around among his closest friends . But they , naturally , kept his secret well , and the public at large knew only of a great excitement in musical and court circles . How titillating it was to go among people who did not know him as the composer , but who talked in the most glowing terms of the promise of the piece after having heard the first rehearsals . The furor was such that people who could not possibly have squirmed their way into the rehearsals were pretending that they were intimate with the whole affair and that it would be sensational . And listening to such a conversation one morning while taking a cup of chocolate in a cafe , Rousseau found himself bathed in perspiration , trembling lest his authorship become known , and at the same time dreaming of the startling effect he would make if he should proclaim himself suddenly as the composer . He felt himself now , as he himself says in his Confessions , at a crucial point of his life . And that was why , on the day of the performance , when a carriage from the royal stables called to take him to the palace , he did not bother to shave . On the contrary , he was pleased that his face showed a neglect of several days . Seeing him in that condition , and about to enter the hall where the King , the Queen , the whole royal family and all the members of the highest aristocracy would be present , Grimm and the Abbe Raynal and others tried to stop him . `` You can go in that way ! They cried . `` Why not ? Jean Jacques asked . `` Who is going to stop me ? `` You haven dressed for the occasion ! They pointed out to him . `` I dressed as I always am , Rousseau said . `` Neither better nor worse . `` At home , yes , they argued . `` But here you are in the palace . There the King . And Madame De Pompadour . `` If they are here , then surely I have the right to be here , Rousseau said . `` And even more right . Since I am the composer ! `` But in such a slovenly condition . `` What is slovenly about me ? Rousseau asked . `` Is it because of my slovenliness that hair grows on my face ? Surely it would grow there whether I washed myself or not . A hundred years ago I would have worn a beard with pride . And those without beards would have stood out as not dressed for the occasion . Now times have changed , and I must pretend that hair doesn grow on my face . That the fashion . And fashion is the real king here . Not Louis 15 , , since even he obeys . Now , if you don mind , I should like to hear my own piece performed . But of course behind his boldness he didn feel bold at all . He trembled lest his piece should fail . And this in addition to his usual fear of being among people of high society , his fear of making some inane or inappropriate remark . And even deeper than that : his fear lest in this closed hall he should suddenly itch to relieve himself . Could he walk out in the midst of his piece ? Here , before the court ? Before the King ? 
It was the first time any of us had laughed since the morning began . The rider from Concord was as good as his word . He came spurring and whooping down the road , his horse kicking up clouds of dust , shouting : `` They e a-coming ! By God , they e a-coming , they are ! We heard him before he ever showed , and we heard him yelling after he was out of sight . Solomon Chandler hadn misjudged the strength of his lungs , not at all . I think you could have heard him a mile away , and he was bursting at every seam with importance . I have observed that being up on a horse changes the whole character of a man , and when a very small man is up on a saddle , he like as not prefer to eat his meals there . That understandable , and I appreciate the sentiment . As for this rider , I never saw him before or afterwards and never saw him dismounted , so whether he stood tall or short in his shoes , I can say ; ut I do know that he gave the day tone and distinction . The last thing in the world that resembled a war was our line of farmers and storekeepers and mechanics perched on top of a stone wall , and this dashing rider made us feel a good deal sharper and more alert to the situation . We came down off the wall as if he had toppled all of us , and we crouched behind it . I have heard people talk with contempt about the British regulars , but that only proves that a lot of people talk about things of which they are deplorably ignorant . Whatever we felt about the redcoats , we respected them in terms of their trade , which was killing ; nd I know that I , myself , was nauseated with apprehension and fear and that my hands were soaking wet where they held my gun . I wanted to wipe my flint , but I didn dare to , the state my hands were in , just as I didn dare to do anything about the priming . The gun would fire or not , just as chance willed . I put a lot more trust in my two legs than in the gun , because the most important thing I had learned about war was that you could run away and survive to talk about it . The gunfire , which was so near that it seemed just a piece up the road now , stopped for long enough to count to twenty ; nd in that brief interval , a redcoat officer came tearing down the road , whipping his horse fit to kill . I don know whether he was after our rider , who had gone by a minute before , or whether he was simply scouting conditions ; ut when he passed us by , a musket roared , and he reared his horse , swung it around , and began to whip it back in the direction from which he had come . He was a fine and showy rider , but his skill was wasted on us . From above me and somewhere behind me , a rifle cracked . The redcoat officer collapsed like a punctured bolster , and the horse reared and threw him from the saddle , except that one booted foot caught in the stirrup . Half crazed by the weight dragging , the dust , and the heat , the horse leaped our wall , dashing out the rider brains against it , and leaving him lying there among us -- while the horse crashed away through the brush . It was my initiation to war and the insane symphony war plays ; or what had happened on the common was only terror and flight ; ut this grinning , broken head , not ten feet away from me , was the sharp definition of what my reality had become . And now the redcoats were coming , and the gunfire was a part of the dust cloud on the road to the west of us . I must state that the faster things happened , the slower they happened ; he passage and rhythm of time changed , and when I remember back to what happened then , each event is a separate and frozen incident . In my recollection , there was a long interval between the death of the officer and the appearance of the first of the retreating redcoats , and in that interval the dust cloud over the road seems to hover indefinitely . Yet it could not have been more than a matter of seconds , and then the front of the British army came into view . It was only hours since I had last seen them , but they had changed and I had changed . In the very front rank , two men were wounded and staggered along , trailing blood behind them . No drummers here , no pipers , and the red coats were covered with a fine film of dust . They marched with bayonets fixed , and as fixed on their faces was anger , fear , and torment . Rank after rank of them came down the road , and the faces were all the same , and they walked in a sea of dust . `` Committeemen , hold your fire ! Hold your fire ! A voice called , and what made it even more terrible and unreal was that the redcoat ranks never paused for an instant , only some of them glancing toward the stone wall , from behind which the voice came . The front of their column had already passed us , when another officer came riding down the side of the road , not five paces from where we were . My Cousin Simmons carried a musket , but he had loaded it with bird shot , and as the officer came opposite him , he rose up behind the wall and fired . One moment there was a man in the saddle ; he next a headless horror on a horse that bolted through the redcoat ranks , and during the next second or two , we all of us fired into the suddenly disorganized column of soldiers . One moment , the road was filled with disciplined troops , marching four by four with a purpose as implacable as death ; he next , a cloud of gun smoke covered a screaming fury of sound , out of which the redcoat soldiers emerged with their bayonets and their cursing fury . In the course of this , they had fired on us ; ut I have no memory of that . I had squeezed the trigger of my own gun , and to my amazement , it had fired and kicked back into my shoulder with the force of an angry mule ; nd then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound , hurling more vile language than I ever thought I knew , sobbing and shouting , and aware that if I had passed water before , it was not enough , for my pants were soaking wet . I would have stood there and died there if left to myself , but Cousin Simmons grabbed my arm in his viselike grip and fairly plucked me out of there ; nd then I came to some sanity and plunged away with such extraordinary speed that I outdistanced Cousin Simmons by far . Everyone else was running . Later we realized that the redcoats had stopped their charge at the wall . Their only hope of survival was to hold to the road and keep marching . We tumbled to a stop in Deacon Gordon cow hole , a low-lying bit of pasture with a muddy pool of water in its middle . A dozen cows mooed sadly and regarded us as if we were insane , as perhaps we were at that moment , with the crazy excitement of our first encounter , the yelling and shooting still continuing up at the road , and the thirst of some of the men , which was so great that they waded into the muddy water and scooped up handfuls of it . Isaac Pitt , one of the men from Lincoln , had taken a musket ball in his belly ; nd though he had found the strength to run with us , now he collapsed and lay on the ground , dying , the Reverend holding his head and wiping his hot brow . It may appear that we were cruel and callous , but no one had time to spend sympathizing with poor Isaac -- except the Reverend . I know that I myself felt that it was a mortal shame for a man to be torn open by a British musket ball , as Isaac had been , yet I also felt relieved and lucky that it had been him and not myself . I was drunk with excitement and the smell of gunpowder that came floating down from the road , and the fact that I was not afraid now , but only waiting to know what to do next . Meanwhile , I reloaded my gun , as the other men were doing . We were less than a quarter of a mile from the road , and we could trace its shape from the ribbon of powder smoke and dust that hung over it . Wherever you looked , you saw Committeemen running across the meadows , some away from the road , some toward it , some parallel to it ; nd about a mile to the west a cluster of at least fifty Militia were making their way in our direction . Cousin Joshua and some others felt that we should march toward Lexington and take up new positions ahead of the slow-moving British column , but another group maintained that we should stick to this spot and this section of road . I didn offer any advice , but I certainly did not want to go back to where the officer lay with his brains dashed out . Someone said that while we were standing here and arguing about it , the British would be gone ; ut Cousin Simmons said he had watched them marching west early in the morning , and moving at a much brisker pace it had still taken half an hour for their column to pass , what with the narrowness of the road and their baggage and ammunition carts . While this was being discussed , we saw the militia to the west of us fanning out and breaking into little clusters of two and three men as they approached the road . It was the opinion of some of us that these must be part of the Committeemen who had been in the Battle of the North Bridge , which entitled them to a sort of veteran status , and we felt that if they employed this tactic , it was likely enough the best one . Mattathias Dover said : `` It makes sense . If we cluster together , the redcoats can make an advantage out of it , but there not a blessed thing they can do with two or three of us except chase us , and we can outrun them . That settled it , and we broke into parties of two and three . Cousin Joshua Dover decided to remain with the Reverend and poor Isaac Pitt until life passed away -- and he was hurt so badly he did not seem for long in this world . I went off with Cousin Simmons , who maintained that if he didn see to me , he didn know who would . `` Good heavens , Adam , he said , `` I thought one thing you have no trouble learning is when to get out of a place . `` I learned that now , I said . We ran east for about half a mile before we turned back to the road , panting from the effort and soaked with sweat . There was a clump of trees that appeared to provide cover right up to the road , and the shouting and gunfire never slackened . Under the trees , there was a dead redcoat , a young boy with a pasty white skin and a face full of pimples , who had taken a rifle ball directly between the eyes . Three men were around him . They had stripped him of his musket and equipment , and now they were pulling his boots and jacket off . Cousin Simmons grabbed one of them by the shoulder and flung him away . `` God name , what are you to rob the dead with the fight going on ! Cousin Simmons roared . They tried to outface him , but Joseph Simmons was as wide as two average men , and it would have taken braver men than these were to outface him . 
That summer the gambling houses were closed , despite the threats of Pierre Ameaux , a gaming-card manufacturer . Dancing was no longer permitted in the streets . The Bordel and other places of prostitution were emptied . The slit breeches had to go . Drunkenness was no longer tolerated . In defiance , a chinless reprobate , Jake Camaret , marched down the aisle in St . Peter one Sunday morning , followed by one of the women from the Bordel , whose dress and walk plainly showed the lack of any shame . Plunking themselves down on the front bench , they turned to smirk at those around them . John first impulse was to denounce their blasphemy . But the thought occurred that God would want this opportunity used to tell them about Him . Calmly he opened the Bible and read of the woman at the well . He finished the worship service as if there had been no brazen attempt to dishonor God and man . The next morning , as the clock struck nine , he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted that the couple would have to be punished if the Church was to be respected . `` I have told you before , and I tell you again , Monsieur Favre said rudely . `` Stick to the preaching of the Gospel ! John stiffened in anger . `` That is the answer the ungodly will always make when the Church points its fingers at their sins . I say to you that the Church will ever decry evil ! John reply was like a declaration of war . Monsieur Favre sat down in his high-backed stall , lips compressed , eyes glinting . Ablard Corne , a short man with a rotunda of stomach , rose . Every eye was on him as he began to speak . `` What Master Calvin says is true . How can we have a good city unless we respect morality ? Abel Poupin , a tall man with sunken cheeks and deep-set eyes , got to his feet . `` We all know that Jake Camaret and the woman are brazenly living together . It would be well to show the populace how we deal with adulterers . Philibert Berthelier , the son of the famous patriot , disagreed . `` Do not listen to that Frenchman . He is throttling the liberty my father gave his life to win ! John was quietly insistent . `` There can be no compromise when souls are in jeopardy . A week later the sentence of the Council was carried out : Jake Camaret and the woman were marched naked through the streets past a mocking populace . Before them stalked the beadle , proclaiming as he went , `` Thus the Council deals with those who break its laws -- adulterers , thieves , murderers , and lewd persons . Let evildoers contemplate their ways , and let every man beware ! John thoughts raced painfully into the past as he read the letter he had just received from his sister Mary . Charles had died two weeks before , in early November , without being reconciled to the Church . The canons , in a body , had tried to force him on his deathbed to let them give him the last rites of the Church , but he had died still proclaiming salvation by faith . Burial had taken place at night in the ground at the public crossroads under the gibbet , so that his enemies could not find his body and have it dug up and burned . The Abbot of St . Eloi , Claude De Mommor , had been a good friend , but not even he thought Charles deserved burial in hallowed ground . John closed his eyes and saw once again the little niche in his mother bedroom , where she had knelt to tell the good Virgin of her needs . The blue-draped Virgin was still there , but no one knelt before her now . Not even Varnessa ; he , too , prayed only to God . For an instant John longed for the sound of the bells of Noyon-la-Sainte , the touch of his mother hand , the lilt of Charles voice in the square raftered rooms , his father bass tones rumbling to the canons , and the sight of the beloved bishop . But he had to follow the light . Unless God expected a man to believe the Holy Scriptures , why had He given them to him ? The white-clad trees stood like specters in the February night . Snow buried the streets and covered the slanting rooftops , as John trudged toward St . Peter . A carriage crunched by , its dim lights filtering through the gloom . The sharp wind slapped at him and his feet felt like ice as the snow penetrated the holes of his shoes , his only ones , now patched with folded parchment . The city had recently given him a small salary , but it was not enough to supply even necessities . As he neared the square , a round figure muffled in a long , black cape whisked by . John recognized Ablard Corne and called out a greeting . How grateful he was to such men ! There were several on the Council who tried to live like Christians . Despite their efforts , the problems seemed to grow graver all the time . Quickening his steps , John entered the vast church and climbed the tower steps to the bells . Underneath the big one , in the silent moonlight , lay a dead pigeon , and on the smaller bell , the Clemence , two gray and white birds slept huddled together in the cold winter air . John leaned upon the stone balustrade . He brushed back his black hair , shoving it under his pastor cap to keep it from blowing in his eyes . Below the moon-splashed world rolled away to insurmountable white peaks ; bove him the deep blue sky glittered with stars . He stood very still , his arms at his sides , staring up at the heavens , then down at the blinking lights below . `` How long , my Lord ? How long ? I have never asked for an easy task , but I am weary of the strife . Sleep was difficult these days . Indigestion plagued him . Severe headaches were frequent . Loneliness tore through him like a physical pain whenever he thought of Peter Robert , Nerien , Nicholas Cop , Martin Bucer , and even the compromising Louis Du Tillet . An occasional traveler from Italy brought news of Peter Robert , who was now distributing his Bible among the Waldensian peasants . Letters came regularly from Nerien , Nicholas , and Martin . He had Anthony and William to confide in and consult . But William continued to find a bitter joy in smashing images and tearing down symbols sacred to the Old Church . John found it difficult , but he held him in check . And Anthony was busy most of the time courting this girl and that . His easy good looks made him a favorite with the ladies . Geneva , instead of becoming the City of God , as John had dreamed , had in the two years since he had been there , continued to be a godless place where all manner of vice flourished . Refugees poured in , signing the Confession and rules in order to remain , and then disregarding them . Dice rolled , prostitutes plied their trade , thieves stole , murderers stabbed , and the ungodly blasphemed . Catholics who were truly Christians longed for the simple penance of days gone by . Libertines recalled the heroism of the past and demanded : `` Are we going to allow the Protestant Pope , Master Calvin , to curtail our liberty ? Why , oh why , doesn he stick to preaching the Gospel , instead of meddling in civic affairs , politics , economics , and social issues that are no concern of the Church ? And John reply was always the same : `` Anything that affects souls is the concern of the Church ! We will have righteousness ! Tears burned behind his eyes as he prayed and meditated tonight . Unless the confusion cleared , he would not be coming here much longer . Monsieur Favre threat would become a reality , for he continued to proclaim loudly that the city must rid itself of `` that Frenchman . The slow tapping of a cane on the stone steps coming up to the tower interrupted his reverie . Faint at first , the tapping grew until it sounded loud against the wind . Eli Corault ! John thought . What is he doing here at this hour ? He started down the steps to meet the near-blind preacher , who had been one of the early Gospelers in Paris . `` John ? Is that you ? I came to warn you of a plot ! John stood above him , his face ashen . What now ? Slowly , like a man grown old , he took Eli hand and led him below to the tower study , guiding him to a chair beside the little hearth where a fire still burned . `` Plot ? John asked tiredly . `` Monsieur Favre just paid me a visit . I went to your rooms , and Anthony told me you were here . Two Anabaptists , Caroli and Benoit , are to challenge you and William to a debate before the Council . It is to be a trap . You know the law : if you lose the debate after accepting a challenge , you will be banished ! `` What will be the subject ? `` You are to be accused of Arianism to confuse the religious who remain loyal . Anger and fear fused in John . Ever since the fourth century a controversy had raged over the person of Christ . Those who refused to believe that He was the eternal Son of God were termed Arianists . Peter Caroli had come to Geneva , saying that he had been a bishop of the Church of Rome and had been persecuted in Paris for his Reformed faith . He asked to be appointed a preacher . But Michael Sept had unmasked him , revealing he had never been a bishop , but was an Anabaptist , afraid to state his faith , because he knew John Calvin had written a book against their belief that the soul slept after death . So John had refused to agree to his appointment as a preacher , and now Caroli sought revenge . John sighed . `` If William agrees , we should insist on a public debate , he said at length . `` There is more to the conspiracy . Bern demands that the Lord Supper be administered here as it used to be , with unleavened bread . Furthermore , Bern decrees that we must do as we are ordered by the Council , preach only the word of God and stop meddling in politics ! `` It was always the spirit with Christ ; atters such as leavened or unleavened bread are inconsequential . Geneva must remain a sovereign state . We will not yield to the demands of Bern ! The firelight played over Eli flowing white locks and rugged features . `` Monsieur Favre indicated that if I would co-operate , after you and William are banished , following the debate , I will be given a place of influence . `` What was your reply to that ? `` That I would rather be banished with two such Christians than be made the Chief Syndic ! The following morning , as John entered the Place Molard on his way to visit a sick refugee , he had a premonition of danger . Then suddenly a group of men and dogs circled him . He wanted to run , but he knew that if he did , he would be lost . He stood very still , his heart thumping wildly . On the outskirts of the rabble the Camaret brothers and Gaspard Favre shook their fists . `` Are you going to comply with the demands of Bern ? The chinless Jake called . `` Arianist ! A rowdy with a big blob of a nose roared . `` Heretic ! John lifted his hand for silence . `` Know this : the ministers will not yield to the demands of Bern . His voice shook a little . Somebody heaved a stone . For an instant John was stunned . When he felt the side of his head , his fingers came away covered with blood . Before he could duck , another stone struck him . And another . `` Let him be now ! Pierre Ameaux , the gaming-card manufacturer said , his little pig eyes glaring . `` We have taught him a lesson . The crowd moved back and John started dizzily down the hill . Fists pummeled him as he staggered forward . Then he slipped and went down on his hands and knees in the melting snow . At once a bevy of dogs was snapping and snarling around him . One , more horrible than the rest , lunged , growling deep in his throat , his hair bristling . With great difficulty John clambered to his feet and started to run , sweat pouring down his face . 
Standing in the shelter of the tent -- a rejected hospital tent on which the rain now dripped , no longer drumming -- Adam watched his own hands touch the objects on the improvised counter of boards laid across two beer barrels . There was , of course , no real need to rearrange everything . A quarter inch this way or that for the hardbake , or the toffee , or the barley sugar , or the sardines , or the bitters , or the condensed milk , or the stationery , or the needles -- what could it mean ? Adam watched his own hands make the caressing , anxious movement that , when rain falls and nobody comes , and ruin draws close like a cat rubbing against the ankles , has been the ritual of stall vendors , forever . He recognized the gesture . He knew its meaning . He had seen a dry , old , yellowing hand reach out , with that painful solicitude , to touch , to rearrange , to shift aimlessly , some object worth a pfennig . Back in Bavaria he had seen that gesture , and at that sight his heart had always died within him . On such occasions he had not had the courage to look at the face above the hand , whatever face it might be . Now the face was his own . He wondered what expression , as he made that gesture , was on his face . He wondered if it wore the old anxiety , or the old , taut stoicism . But there was no need , he remembered , for his hand to reach out , for his face to show concern or stoicism . It was nothing to him if rain fell and nobody came . Then why was he assuming the role -- the gesture and the suffering ? What was he expiating ? Or was he now taking the role -- the gesture and the suffering -- because it was the only way to affirm his history and identity in the torpid , befogged loneliness of this land . This was Virginia . He looked out of the tent at the company street . The rain dripped on the freezing loblolly of the street . Beyond that misty gray of the rain , he saw the stretching hutment , low diminutive log cabins , chinked with mud , with doorways a man would have to crouch to get through , with roofs of tenting laid over boughs or boards from hardtack boxes , or fence rails , with cranky chimneys of sticks and dried mud . The chimney of the hut across from him was surmounted by a beef barrel with ends knocked out . In this heavy air , however , that device did not seem to help . The smoke from that chimney rose as sluggishly as smoke from any other , and hung as sadly in the drizzle , creeping back down along the sopping canvas of the roof . Over the door was a board with large , inept lettering : home sweet home . This was the hut of Simms Purdew , the hero . The men were huddled in those lairs . Adam knew the names of some . He knew the faces of all , hairy or shaven , old or young , fat or thin , suffering or hardened , sad or gay , good or bad . When they stood about his tent , chaffing each other , exchanging their obscenities , cursing command or weather , he had studied their faces . He had had the need to understand what life lurked behind the mask of flesh , behind the oath , the banter , the sadness . Once covertly looking at Simms Purdew , the only man in the world whom he hated , he had seen the heavy , slack , bestubbled jaw open and close to emit the cruel , obscene banter , and had seen the pale-blue eyes go watery with whisky and merriment , and suddenly he was not seeing the face of that vile creature . He was seeing , somehow , the face of a young boy , the boy Simms Purdew must once have been , a boy with sorrel hair , and blue eyes dancing with gaiety , and the boy mouth grinning trustfully among the freckles . In that moment of vision Adam heard the voice within himself saying : I must not hate him , I must not hate him or I shall die . His heart suddenly opened to joy . He thought that if once , only once , he could talk with Simms Purdew , something about his own life , and all life , would be clear and simple . If Simms Purdew would turn to him and say : `` Adam , you know when I was a boy , it was a funny thing happened . Lemme tell you now -- If only Simms Purdew could do that , whatever the thing he remembered and told . It would be a sign for the untellable , and he , Adam , would understand . Now , Adam , in the gray light of afternoon , stared across at the hut opposite his tent , and thought of Simms Purdew lying in there in the gloom , snoring on his bunk , with the fumes of whisky choking the air . He saw the sign above the door of the hut : home sweet home . He saw the figure of a man in a poncho coming up the company street , with an armful of wood . It was Pullen James , the campmate of Simms Purdew . He carried the wood , carried the water , did the cooking , cleaning and mending , and occasionally got a kick in the butt for his pains . Adam watched the moisture flow from the poncho . It gave the rubberized fabric a dull gleam , like metal . Pullen James humbly lowered his head , pushed aside the hardtack-box door of the hut , and was gone from sight . Adam stared at the door and remembered that Simms Purdew had been awarded the Medal of Honor for gallantry at Antietam . The street was again empty . The drizzle was slacking off now , but the light was grayer . With enormous interest , Adam watched his hands as they touched and shifted the objects on the board directly before him . Into the emptiness of the street , and his spirit , moved a form . The form was swathed in an army blanket , much patched , fastened at the neck with a cord . From under the shapeless huddle of blanket the feet moved in the mud . The feet wore army shoes , in obvious disrepair . The head was wrapped in a turban and on top of the turban rode a great hamper across which a piece of poncho had been flung . The gray face stared straight ahead in the drizzle . Moisture ran down the cheeks , gathered at the tip of the nose , and at the chin . The figure was close enough now for him to see the nose twitching to dislodge the drop clinging there . The figure stopped and one hand was perilously freed from the hamper to scratch the nose . Then the figure moved on . This was one of the Irish women who had built their own huts down near the river . They did washing . Adam recognized this one . He recognized her because she was the one who , in a winter twilight , on the edge of camp , had once stopped him and reached down her hand to touch his fly . `` Slice o ' mutton , bhoy ? She had queried in her soft guttural . `` Slice o ' mutton ? Her name was Mollie . They called her Mollie the Mutton , and laughed . Looking down the street after her , Adam saw that she had again stopped and again removed one hand from the basket . He could not make out , but he knew that again she was scratching her nose . Mollie the Mutton was scratching her nose . The words ran crazily in his head : Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain . Then the words fell into a pattern : `` Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose , Scratching her nose in the rain . Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain . The pattern would not stop . It came again and again . He felt trapped in that pattern , in the repetition . Suddenly he thought he might weep . `` What the matter with me ? He demanded out loud . He looked wildly around , at the now empty street , at the mud , at the rain . `` Oh , what the matter with me ? He demanded . When he had stored his stock in the great oak chest , locked the two big hasps and secured the additional chain , tied the fly of the tent , and picked up the cash box , he moved up the darkening street . He would consign the cash box into the hands of Jed Hawksworth , then stand by while his employer checked the contents and the list of items sold . Then he -- Then what ? He did not know . His mind closed on that prospect , as though fog had descended to blot out a valley . Far off , in the dusk , he heard voices singing , muffled but strong . In one of the huts a group of men were huddled together , singing . He stopped . He strained to hear . He heard the words : `` Rock of Ages , cleft for me , Let me hide myself in Thee ! Let the water and the blood From Thy riven side flow ! He thought : I am a Jew from Bavaria . He was standing there , he thought , in Virginia , in the thickening dusk , in a costly greatcoat that had belonged to another Jew . That other Jew , a young man too , had left that greatcoat behind , in a rich house , and marched away . He had crossed the river which now , beyond the woods yonder , was sliding darkly under the mist . He had plunged into the dark woods beyond . He had died there . What had that man , that other young Jew , felt as he stood in the twilight and heard other men , far away , singing together ? Adam thought of the hutments , regiment after regiment , row after row , the thousands of huts , stretching away into the night . He thought of the men , the nameless thousands , huddling in them . He thought of Simms Purdew snoring on his bunk while Pullen James crouched by the hearth , skirmishing an undershirt for lice , and a wet log sizzled . He thought of Simms Purdew , who once had risen at the edge of a cornfield , a maniacal scream on his lips , and swung a clubbed musket like a flail to beat down the swirl of Rebel bayonets about him . He thought of Simms Purdew rising up , fearless in glory . He felt the sweetness of pity flood through him , veining his very flesh . Those men , lying in the huts , they did not know . They did not know who they were or know their own worth . In the pity for them his loneliness was gone . Then he thought of Aaron Blaustein standing in his rich house saying : `` God is tired of taking the blame . He is going to let History take the blame for a while . He thought of the old man laughing under the glitter of the great chandelier . He thought : Only in my heart can I make the world hang together . Adam rose from the crouch necessary to enter the hut . He saw Mose squatting by the hearth , breaking up hardtack into a pan . A pot was boiling on the coals . `` Gonna give Ole Buckra all his money ? Mose asked softly . Adam nodded . `` Yeah , Mose murmured , `` yeah . And look what he done give us . Adam looked at the pot . `` What is it ? He asked . `` Chicken , Mose said , and theatrically licked his lips . `` Gre big fat chicken , yeah . He licked his lips again . Then : `` yeah . A chicken with six tits and a tail lak a corkscrew . And it squealed for slop . Mose giggled . `` Fooled you , huh ? It is the same ole same , tell me its name . It is sowbelly with tits on . It is salt po . It is salt po and skippers . That po , it was so full of skippers it would jump and run and not come when you say , hoo-pig . Had to put my foot on it to hole it down while I cut it up fer the lob-scuse . He dumped the pan of crumbled hardtack into the boiling pot of lobscouse . `` Good ole lob-scuse , he mumbled , and stirred the pot . He stopped stirring and looked over his shoulder . `` Know what Ole Buckra et tonight ? He demanded . `` Know what I had to fix fer Ole Him ? Adam shook his head . `` Chicken , Mose said . 
She was a child too much a part of her environment , too eager to grow and learn and experience . Once , they were at Easthampton for the summer ( again , Fritzie said , a good place , even though they were being robbed ) . One soft evening -- that marvelous sea-blessed time when the sun departing warmth lingers and a smell of spume and wrack haunts everything -- Amy had picked herself off the floor and begun to walk . Fritzie was on the couch reading ; aura was sitting in an easy chair about eight feet away . The infant , in white terry-cloth bathrobe , her face intense and purposeful , had essayed a few wobbly steps toward her father . `` Y ll wanna walk -- walk , he said . Then , gently , he shoved her behind toward Laura . Amy walked -- making it halfway across the cottage floor . She lost not a second , picking herself up and continuing her pilgrimage to Laura . Then Laura took her gently and shoved her off again , toward Fritzie : Amy did not laugh -- this was work , concentration , achievement . In a few minutes she was making the ten-foot hike unaided ; oon she was parading around the house , flaunting her new skill . Some liar logic , a wisp of optimism as fragile as the scent of tropical blossoms that came through the window ( a euphoria perhaps engendered by the pill Fritzie had given her ) , consoled her for a moment . Amy had to be safe , had to come back to them -- if only to reap that share of life experiences that were her due , if only to give her parents another chance to do better by her . Through the swathings of terror , she jabbed deceit sharp point -- Amy would be reborn , a new child , with new parents , living under new circumstances . The comfort was short-lived , yet she found herself returning to the assurance whenever her imagination forced images on her too awful to contemplate without the prop of illusion . Gazing at her husband drugged body , his chest rising and falling in mindless rhythms , she saw the grandeur of his fictional world , that lush garden from which he plucked flowers and herbs . She envied him . She admired him . In the darkness , she saw him stirring . He seemed to be muttering , his voice surprisingly clear . `` Y ll should have let me take that money out , Andrus said . `` other minute I have been fine . H ll should have let me do it . Laura touched his hand . `` Yes , I know , Fritzie . I should have . Tuesday The heat intensified on Tuesday . Southern California gasped and blinked under an autumn hot spell , drier , more enervating , more laden with man contrived impurities than the worst days of the summer past . It could continue this way , hitting 106 and more in the Valley , Joe McFeeley knew , into October . He and Irvin Moll were sipping coffee at the breakfast bar . Both had been up since 7 : 00 -- Irv on the early-morning watch , McFeeley unable to sleep during his four-hour relief . The night before , they had telephoned the Andrus maid , Selena Masters , and she had arrived early , bursting her vigorous presence into the silent house with an assurance that amused McFeeley and confounded Moll . The latter , thanking her for the coffee , had winked and muttered , `` Sure uff , honey . Selena was the wrong woman for these crudities . With a hard eye , she informed Moll : `` Don sure uff me , officer . I honey only to my husband , understand ? Sergeant Moll understood . The maid was very black and very energetic , trim in a yellow pique uniform . Her speech was barren of southernisms ; he was one of Eliot Sparling neutralized minorities , adopting the rolling R and constricted vowels of Los Angeles . Not seeing her dark intelligent face , one would have gauged the voice as that of a Westwood Village matron , ten years out of Iowa . After she had served the detectives coffee and toast ( they politely declined eggs , uncomfortable about their tenancy ) , she settled down with a morning newspaper and began reading the stock market quotations . While she was thus engaged , McFeeley questioned her about her whereabouts the previous day , any recollections she had of people hanging around , of overcurious delivery boys or repairmen , of strange cars cruising the neighborhood . She answered him precisely , missing not a beat in her scrutiny of the financial reports . Selena Masters , Joe realized , was her own woman . She was the only kind of Negro Laura Andrus would want around : independent , unservile , probably charging double what ordinary maids did for housework -- and doubly efficient . When the parents emerged from the bedroom a few minutes later , the maid greeted them quietly . `` I awful sorry about what happened , Selena said . `` Maybe today l be a good-news day . She charged off to the bedrooms . Moll took his coffee into the nursery . During the night , a phone company technician had deadened the bells and installed red blinkers on the phones . Someone would have to remain in the office continually . McFeeley greeted the parents , then studied his notebook . He wanted to take the mother to headquarters at once and start her on the mug file . `` Sleep well ? He asked . Andrus did not answer him . His face was bloated with drugging , redder than normal . The woman had the glassy look of an invalid , as if she had not slept at all . `` Oh -- we managed , she said . `` I a little groggy . Did anything happen during the night ? `` Few crank calls , McFeeley said . `` A couple of tips we e running down -- nothing promising . We can expect more of the same . Too bad your number is in the directory . `` Didn occur to me my child would be kidnaped when I had it listed , Andrus muttered . He settled on the sofa with his coffee , warming his hands on the cup , although the room was heavy with heat . The three had little to say to each other . The previous night horror -- the absolute failure , overcast with the intrusions of the press , had left them all with a wan sense of uselessness , of play-acting . Sipping their coffee , discussing the weather , the day shopping , Fritzie commitments at the network ( all of which he would cancel ) , they avoided the radio , the morning TV news show , even the front page of the Santa Luisa Register , resting on the kitchen bar . Kidnaper spurns ransom ; my still missing . Once , Andrus walked by it , hastily scanned the bold black headline and the five-column lead of the article ( by Duane Bosch , staff correspondent -- age not given ) , and muttered : `` We a buncha national celebrities . McFeeley told the parents he would escort them to police headquarters in a half hour . Before that , he wanted to talk to the neighbors . He did not want to bring the Andruses to the station house too early -- Rheinholdt had summoned a press conference , and he didn want them subjected to the reporters again . He could think of nothing else to tell them : no assurances , no hopeful hints at great discoveries that day . When the detective left , Andrus phoned his secretary to cancel his work and to advise the network to get a substitute director for his current project . Mrs . Andrus was talking to the maid , arranging for her to come in every day , instead of the four days she now worked . Outside , only a handful of reporters remained . The bulk of the press corps was covering Rheinholdt conference . In contrast to the caravan of the previous night , there were only four cars parked across the street . Two men he did not recognize were sipping coffee and munching sweet rolls . He did not see Sparling , or DeGroot , or Ringel , or any of the feverish crew that had so harassed him twelve hours ago . However , the litter remained , augmented by several dozen lunchroom suppers . The street cleaner had not yet been around . One of the reporters called to him : `` Anything new , Lieutenant ? And he ignored him , skirting the parked cars and walking up the path to the Skopas house . When McFeeley was halfway to the door , the proprietor emerged -- a mountainous , dark man , his head thick with resiny black hair , his eyes like two of the black olives he imported in boatloads . McFeeley identified himself . The master of the house , his nourished face unrevealing , consented to postpone his departure a few minutes to talk to the detective . Inside , as soon as Mr . Skopas had disclosed -- in a hoarse whisper -- the detective errand , his family gathered in a huddle , forming a mass of dark flesh on and around a brocaded sofa which stood at one side of a baroque fireplace . Flanked by marble urns and alabaster lamps , they seemed to be posing for a tribal portrait . It was amazing how they had herded together for protection : an enormous matriarch in a quilted silk wrapper , rising from the breakfast table ; gross boy in his teens , shuffling in from the kitchen with a sandwich in his hands ; girl in her twenties , fat and sullen , descending the marble staircase ; hen all four gathering on the sofa to face the inquisitor . They answered him in monosyllables , nods , occasionally muttering in Greek to one another , awaiting the word from Papa , who restlessly cracked his knuckles , anxious to stuff himself into his white Cadillac and burst off to the freeway . No , they hadn seen anyone around ; o , they didn know the Andrus family ; es , they had read about the case ; es , they had let some reporters use their phone , but they would no longer . They offered no opinions , volunteered nothing , betrayed no emotions . Studying them , McFeeley could not help make comparison with the Andrus couple . The Skopas people seemed to him of that breed of human beings whose insularity frees them from tragedy . He imagined they were the kind whose tax returns were never examined ( if they were , they were never penalized ) , whose children had no unhappy romances , whose names never knew scandal . The equation was simple : wealth brought them happiness , and their united front to the world was their warning that they meant to keep everything they had , let no one in on the secrets . By comparison , Fritzie and Laura Andrus were quivering fledglings . They possessed no outer fortifications , no hard shells of confidence ; hey had enough difficulty getting from day to day , let alone having an awful crime thrust upon them . Skopas expressed no curiosity over the case , offered no expression of sympathy , made no move to escort McFeely to the door . All four remained impacted on the sofa until he had left . He had spoken to Mrs . . Emerson the previous day . There remained a family named Kahler , owners of a two-story Tudor-style house on the south side of the Andrus home . Their names had not come up in any discussions with Laura , and he had no idea what they would be like . McFeeley noted the immaculate lawn and gardens : each blade of grass cropped , bright and firm ; ach shrub glazed with good health . The door was answered by a slender man in his sixties -- straight-backed , somewhat clerical in manner , wearing rimless glasses . When Joe identified himself , he nodded , unsmiling , and ushered him into a sedate living room . Mrs . Kahler joined them . She had a dried-out quality -- a gray , lean woman , not unattractive . Both were dressed rather formally . The man wore a vest and a tie , the woman had on a dark green dress and three strands of pearls . `` Funny thing , Mr . Kahler said , when they were seated , `` when I heard you ringing , I figured it was that guy down the block , Hausman . McFeeley looked puzzled . Kahler continued : `` I fixed his dog the other day and I guess he sore , so I expected him to come barging in . Mr . Kahler went on to explain how Hausman fox terrier had been `` making in his flower beds . The dog refused to be scared off , so Kahler had purchased some small firecrackers . He would lay in wait in the garage , and when the terrier came scratching around , he let fly with a cherry bomb . `` Scared the hell out of him , Kahler grinned . `` I hit him in the ass once . Both grinned at the detective . `` Finally , all I needed was to throw a little piece of red wood that looked like a firecracker and that dumb dog would run ki-yi-ing for his life . 
In the dim underwater light they dressed and straightened up the room , and then they went across the hall to the kitchen . She was intimidated by the stove . He found the pilot light and turned on one of the burners for her . The gas flamed up two inches high . They found the teakettle . And put water on to boil and then searched through the icebox . Several sections of a loaf of dark bread ; utter ; am ; tiny cake of ice . In their search for what turned out to be the right breakfast china but the wrong table silver , they opened every cupboard door in the kitchen and pantry . While she was settling the teacart , he went back across the hall to their bedroom , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar . She appeared with the teacart and he opened the windows . `` Do you want to call Eugene ? He didn , but it was not really a question , and so he left the room , walked down the hall to the front of the apartment , hesitated , and then knocked lightly on the closed door of the study . A sleepy voice answered . `` Le petit dejeuner , Harold said , in an accent that did credit to Miss Sloan , his high-school French teacher . At the same time , his voice betrayed uncertainty about their being here , and conveyed an appeal to whatever is reasonable , peace-loving , and dependable in everybody . Since ordinary breakfast-table conversation was impossible , it was at least something that they were able to offer Eugene the sugar bowl with their sugar in it , and the plate of bread and butter , and that Eugene could return the pitcher of hot milk to them handle first . Eugene put a spoonful of powdered coffee into his cup and then filled it with hot water . Stirring , he said : `` I am sorry that my work prevents me from doing anything with you today . They assured him that they did not expect or need to be entertained . Harold put a teaspoonful of powdered coffee in his cup and filled it with hot water , and then , stirring , he sat back in his chair . The chair creaked . Every time he moved or said something , the chair creaked again . Eugene was not entirely silent , or openly rude -- unless asking Harold to move to another chair and placing himself in the fauteuil that creaked so alarmingly was an act of rudeness . It went right on creaking under his own considerable weight , and all it needed , Harold thought , was for somebody to fling himself back in a fit of laughter and that would be the end of it . Through the open window they heard sounds below in the street : cartwheels , a tired horse plodding step , voices . Harold indicated the photograph on the wall and asked what church the stone sculpture was in . Eugene told him and he promptly forgot . They passed the marmalade , the bread , the black-market butter , back and forth . Nothing was said about hotels or train journeys . Eugene offered Harold his car , to use at any time he cared to , and when this offer was not accepted , the armchair creaked . They all three had another cup of coffee . Eugene was in his pajamas and dressing gown , and on his large feet he wore yellow Turkish slippers that turned up at the toes . `` Excuse me , he said in Berlitz English , and got up and left them , to bathe and dress . The first shrill ring of the telephone brought Harold out into the hall . He realized that he had no idea where the telephone was . At that moment the bathroom door flew open and Eugene came out , with his face lathered for shaving , and strode down the hall , tying the sash of his dressing gown as he went . The telephone was in the study but the ringing came from the hall . Between the telephone and the wall plug there was sixty feet of cord , and when the conversation came to an end , Eugene carried the instrument with him the whole length of the apartment , to his bathroom , where it rang three more times while he was shaving and in the tub . Before he left the apartment he knocked on their door and asked if there was anything he could do for them . Harold shook his head . `` Sabine called a few minutes ago , Eugene said . `` She wants you and Barbara to have dinner with her tomorrow night . He handed Harold a key to the front door , and cautioned him against leaving it unlocked while they were out of the apartment . When enough time had elapsed so that there was little likelihood of his returning for something he had forgotten , Harold went out into the hall and stood looking into one room after another . In the room next to theirs was a huge cradle , of mahogany , ornately carved and decorated with gold leaf . It was the most important-looking cradle he had ever seen . Then came their bathroom , and then a bedroom that , judging by the photographs on the walls , must belong to Mme Cestre . A young woman who looked like Alix , with her two children . Alix and Eugene on their wedding day . Matching photographs in oval frames of Mme Bonenfant and an elderly man who must be Alix grandfather . Mme Vienot , considerably younger and very different . The schoolboy . And a gray-haired man whose glance -- direct , lifelike , and mildly accusing -- was contradicted by the gilt and black frame . It was the kind of frame that is only put around the photograph of a dead person . Professor Cestre , could it be ? With the metal shutters closed , the dining room was so dark that it seemed still night in there . One of the drawing-room shutters was partly open and he made out the shapes of chairs and sofas , which seemed to be upholstered in brown or russet velvet . The curtains were of the same material , and there were some big oil paintings -- portraits in the style of Lancret and Boucher . Though , taken individually , the big rooms were , or seemed to be , square , the apartment as a whole formed a triangle . The apex , the study where Eugene slept , was light and bright and airy and cheerful . The window looked out on the Place Redoute -- it was the only window of the apartment that did . Looking around slowly , he saw a marble fireplace , a desk , a low bookcase of mahogany with criss-crossed brass wire instead of glass panes in the doors . The daybed Eugene had slept in , made up now with its dark-brown velours cover and pillows . The portable record player with a pile of classical records beside it . Beethoven Fifth was the one on top . Da-da-da-dum Music could not be Eugene passion . Besides , the records were dusty . He tried the doors of the bookcase . Locked . The titles he could read easily through the criss-crossed wires : works on theology , astral physics , history , biology , political science . No poetry . No novels . He moved over to the desk and stood looking at the papers on it but not touching anything . The clock on the mantel piece was scandalized and ticked so loudly that he glanced at it over his shoulder and then quickly left the room . The concierge called out to them as they were passing through the foyer . Her quarters were on the right as you walked into the building , and her small front room was clogged with heavy furniture -- a big , round , oak dining table and chairs , a buffet , with a row of unclaimed letters inserted between the mirror and its frame . The suitcases had come while they were out , and had been put in their room , the concierge said . He waited until they were inside the elevator and then said : `` Now what do we do ? `` Call the Vouillemont , I guess . `` I guess . Rather than sit around waiting for the suitcases to be delivered , they had gone sight-seeing . They went to the Flea Market , expecting to find the treasures of Europe , and found instead a duplication of that long double row of booths in Tours . Cheap clothing and junk of every sort , as far as the eye could see . They looked , even so . Looked at everything . Barbara bought some cotton aprons , and Harold bought shoestrings . They had lunch at a sidewalk cafe overlooking the intersection of two broad , busy , unpicturesque streets , and coming home they got lost in the Metro ; t took them over an hour to get back to the station where they should have changed , in order to take the line that went to the Place Redoute . It was the end of the afternoon when he took the huge key out of his pocket and inserted it into the keyhole . When he opened the door , there stood Eugene , on his way out of the apartment . He was wearing sneakers and shorts and an open-collared shirt , and in his hand he carried a little black bag . He did not explain where he was going , and they did not ask . Instead , they went on down the hall to their room . `` Do you think he could be having an affair ? Barbara asked , as they heard the front door close . `` Oh no , Harold said , shocked . `` Well , this is France , after all . `` I know , but there must be some other explanation . He probably spending the evening with friends . `` And for that he needs a little bag ? They went shopping in the neighborhood , and bought two loaves of bread with the ration coupons they had been given in Blois , and some cheese , and a dozen eggs , and a bag of oranges from a peddler in the Place Redoute -- the first oranges they had seen since they landed . They had Vermouth , sitting in front of a cafe . When they got home Harold was grateful for the stillness in the apartment , and thought how , under different circumstances , they might have stayed on here , in these old-fashioned , high-ceilinged rooms that reminded him of the Irelands ' apartment in the East Eighties . They could have been perfectly happy here for ten whole days . He went down the hall to Eugene bathroom , to turn on the hot-water heater , and on the side of the tub he saw a pair of blue wool swimming trunks . He felt them . They were damp . He reached out and felt the bath towel hanging on the towel rack over the tub . Damp also . He looked around the room and then called out : `` Come here , quick ? `` What is it ? Barbara asked , standing in the doorway . `` I e solved the mystery of the little bag . There it is and there is what was in it . But where do people go swimming in Paris ? That boat in the river , maybe . `` What boat ? `` There a big boat anchored near the Place De La Concorde , with a swimming pool in it -- didn you notice it ? But if he has time to go swimming , he had time to be with us . She looked at him in surprise . `` I know , he said , reading her mind . `` I don know what I going to do with you . `` It because we are in France , he said , `` and know so few people . So something like this matters more than it would at home . Also , he was so nice when he was nice . `` All because I didn feel like dancing . `` I don think it was that , really . `` Then what was it ? `` I don know . I wish I did . The tweed coat , maybe . The thing about Eugene is that he very proud . And the thing about hurt feelings , the wet bathing suit pointed out , is that the person who has them is not quite the innocent party he believes himself to be . For instance -- what about all those people Harold Rhodes went toward unhesitatingly , as if this were the one moment they would ever have together , their one chance of knowing each other ? Fortunately , the embarrassing questions raised by objects do not need to be answered , or we would all have to go sleep in the open fields . And in any case , answers may clarify but they do not change anything . 
He brought with him a mixture of myrrh and aloes , of about a hundred pounds ' weight . They took Jesus body , then , and wrapped it in winding-clothes with the spices ; hat is how the Jews prepare a body for burial . Listed as present at the Descent were Mary , Mary sister , Mary Magdalene , John , Joseph of Arimathea , Nicodemus . Search as he might , he could find no place where the Bible spoke of a moment when Mary could have been alone with Jesus . Mostly the scene was crowded with mourners , such as the dramatic Dell rca Lamentation in Bologna , where the grief-stricken spectators had usurped Mary last poignant moment . In his concept there could be no one else present . His first desire was to create a mother and son alone in the universe . When might Mary have had that moment to hold her child on her lap ? Perhaps after the soldiers had laid him on the ground , while Joseph of Arimathea was at Pontius Pilate asking for Christ body , Nicodemus was gathering his mixture of myrrh and aloes , and the others had gone home to mourn . Those who saw his finished Pieta would take the place of the biblical witnesses . They would feel what Mary was undergoing . There would be no halos , no angels . These would be two human beings , whom God had chosen . He felt close to Mary , having spent so long concentrating on the beginning of her journey . Now she was intensely alive , anguished ; er son was dead . Even though he would later be resurrected , he was at this moment dead indeed , the expression on his face reflecting what he had gone through on the cross . In his sculpture therefore it would not be possible for him to project anything of what Jesus felt for his mother ; nly what Mary felt for her son . Jesus ' inert body would be passive , his eyes closed . Mary would have to carry the human communication . This seemed right to him . It was a relief to shift in his mind to technical problems . Since his Christ was to be life size , how was Mary to hold him on her lap without the relationship seeming ungainly ? His Mary would be slender of limb and delicate of proportion , yet she must hold this full-grown man as securely and convincingly as she would a child . There was only one way to accomplish this : by design , by drawing diagrams and sketches in which he probed the remotest corner of his mind for creative ideas to carry his concept . He started by making free sketches to loosen up his thinking so that images would appear on paper . Visually , these approximated what he was feeling within himself . At the same time he started walking the streets , peering at the people passing or shopping at the stalls , storing up fresh impressions of what they looked like , how they moved . In particular he sought the gentle , sweet-faced nuns , with head coverings and veils coming to the middle of their foreheads , remembering their expressions until he reached home and set them down on paper . Discovering that draperies could be designed to serve structural purposes , he began a study of the anatomy of folds . He improvised as he went along , completing a life-size clay figure , then bought yards of an inexpensive material from a draper , wet the lightweight cloth in a basin and covered it over with clay that Argiento brought from the bank of the Tiber , to the consistency of thick mud . No fold could be accidental , each turn of the drapery had to serve organically , to cover the Madonna slender legs and feet so that they would give substantive support to Christ body , to intensify her inner turmoil . When the cloth dried and stiffened , he saw what adjustments had to be made . `` So that sculpture , commented Argiento wryly , when he had sluiced down the floor for a week , `` making mud pies . Michelangelo grinned . `` See , Argiento , if you control the way these folds are bunched , like this , or made to flow , you can enrich the body attitudes . They can have as much tactile appeal as flesh and bone . He went into the Jewish quarter , wanting to draw Hebraic faces so that he could reach a visual understanding of how Christ might have looked . The Jewish section was in Trastevere , near the Tiber at the church of San Francesco a Ripa . The colony had been small until the Spanish Inquisition of 1492 drove many Jews into Rome . Here , for the most part , they were well treated , as a `` reminder of the Old Testament heritage of Christianity ; any of their gifted members were prominent in the Vatican as physicians , musicians , bankers . The men did not object to his sketching them while they went about their work , but no one could be persuaded to come to his studio to pose . He was told to ask for Rabbi Melzi at the synagogue on Saturday afternoon . Michelangelo found the rabbi in the room of study , a gentle old man with a white beard and luminous grey eyes , robed in black gabardine with a skullcap on his head . He was reading from the Talmud with a group of men from his congregation . When Michelangelo explained why he had come , Rabbi Melzi replied gravely : `` The Bible forbids us to bow down to or to make graven images . That is why our creative people give their time to literature , not to painting or sculpture . `` But , Rabbi Melzi , you don object to others creating works of art ? `` Not at all . Each religion has its own tenets . `` I am carving a Pieta from white Carrara marble . I wish to make Jesus an authentic Jew . I cannot accomplish this if you will not help me . The rabbi said thoughtfully , `` I would not want my people to get in trouble with the Church . `` I am working for the Cardinal of San Dionigi . I sure he would approve . `` What kind of models would you prefer ? `` Workmen . In their mid-thirties . Not bulky laborers , but sinewy men . With intelligence . And sensitivity . Rabbi Melzi smiled at him with infinitely old but merry eyes . `` Leave me your address . I will send you the best the quarter has to offer . Michelangelo hurried to Sangallo solitary bachelor room with his sketches , asked the architect to design a stand which would simulate the seated Madonna . Sangallo studied the drawings and improvised a trestle couch . Michelangelo bought some scrap lumber . Together he and Argiento built the stand , covering it with blankets . His first model arrived at dusk . He hesitated for a moment when Michelangelo asked him to disrobe , so Michelangelo gave him a piece of toweling to wrap around his loins , led him to the kitchen to take off his clothes . He then draped him over the rough stand , explained that he was supposed to be recently dead , and was being held on his mother lap . The model quite plainly thought Michelangelo crazy ; nly the instructions from his rabbi kept him from bolting . But at the end of the sitting , when Michelangelo showed him the quick , free drawings , with the mother roughed in , holding her son , the model grasped what Michelangelo was after , and promised to speak to his friends . He worked for two hours a day with each model sent by the rabbi . Mary presented quite a different problem . Though this sculpture must take place thirty-three years after her moment of decision , he could not conceive of her as a woman in her mid-fifties , old , wrinkled , broken in body and face by labor or worry . His image of the Virgin had always been that of a young woman , even as had his memory of his mother . Jacopo Galli introduced him into several Roman homes . Here he sketched , sitting in their flowing gowns of linen and silk , young girls not yet twenty , some about to be married , some married a year or two . Since the Santo Spirito hospital had taken only men , he had had no experience in the study of female anatomy ; ut he had sketched the women of Tuscany in their fields and homes . He was able to discern the body lines of the Roman women under their robes . He spent concentrated weeks putting his two figures together : a Mary who would be young and sensitive , yet strong enough to hold her son on her lap ; nd a Jesus who , though lean , was strong even in death a look he remembered well from his experience in the dead room of Santo Spirito . He drew toward the composite design from his meticulously accurate memory , without need to consult his sketches . Soon he was ready to go into a three-dimensional figure in clay . Here he would have free expression because the material could be moved to distort forms . When he wanted to emphasize , or get greater intensity , he added or subtracted clay . Next he turned to wax because there was a similarity of wax to marble in tactile quality and translucence . He respected each of these approach techniques , and kept them in character : his quill drawings had a scratchiness , suggesting skin texture ; he clay he used plastically to suggest soft moving flesh , as in an abdomen , in a reclining torso ; he wax he smoothed over to give the body surface an elastic pull . Yet he never allowed these models to become fixed in his mind ; hey remained rough starting points . When carving he was charged with spontaneous energy ; oo careful or detailed studies in clay and wax would have glued him down to a mere enlarging of his model . The true surge had to be inside the marble itself . Drawing and models were his thinking . Carving was action . 10 . The arrangement with Argiento was working well , except that sometimes Michelangelo could not figure who was master and who apprentice . Argiento had been trained so rigorously by the Jesuits that Michelangelo was unable to change his habits : up before dawn to scrub the floors , whether they were dirty or not ; ater boiling on the fire for washing laundry every day , the pots scoured with river sand after each meal . `` Argiento , this is senseless , he complained , not liking to work on the wet floors , particularly in cold weather . `` You e too clean . Scrub the studio once a week . That enough . `` No , said Argiento stolidly . `` Every day . Before dawn . I was taught . `` And God help anyone who tries to unteach you ! Grumbled Michelangelo ; et he knew that he had nothing to grumble about , for Argiento made few demands on him . The boy was becoming acquainted with the contadini families that brought produce into Rome . On Sundays he would walk miles into the campagna to visit with them , and in particular to see their horses . The one thing he missed from his farm in the Po Valley was the animals ; requently he would take his leave of Michelangelo by announcing : `` Today I go see the horses . It took a piece of bad luck to show Michelangelo that the boy was devoted to him . He was crouched over his anvil in the courtyard getting his chisels into trim , when a splinter of steel flew into his eye and imbedded itself in his pupil . He stumbled into the house , eyes burning like fire . Argiento made him lie down on the bed , brought a pan of hot water , dipped some clean white linen cloth and applied it to extract the splinter . Though the pain was considerable Michelangelo was not too concerned . He assumed he could blink the splinter out . But it would not come . Argiento never left his side , keeping the water boiled , applying hot compresses throughout the night . By the second day Michelangelo began to worry ; nd by the second night he was in a state of panic : he could see nothing out of the afflicted eye . At dawn Argiento went to Jacopo Galli . Galli arrived with his family surgeon , Maestro Lippi . The surgeon carried a cage of live pigeons . He told Argiento to take a bird out of the cage , cut a large vein under its wing , let the blood gush into Michelangelo injured eye . The surgeon came back at dusk , cut the vein of a second pigeon , again washed out the eye . 
Beth was very still and her breath came in small jerking gasps . The thin legs twitched convulsively once , then Kate felt the little body stiffening in her arms and heard one strangled sound . The scant flesh grew cool beneath her frantic hands . The child was gone . When Juanita awoke , Kate was still rocking the dead child , still crooning in disbelief , `` No , no , oh , no ! They put Kate to bed and wired Jonathan and sent for the young Presbyterian minister . He sat beside Kate bed with the others throughout the morning , talking , talking of God will , while Kate lay staring angrily at him . When he told her God had called the child to Him , she rejected his words rebelliously . Few of the neighbors came , but Mrs . Tussle came , called by tragedy . `` It always comes in threes , she sighed heavily . `` Trouble never comes but in threes . They held the funeral the next morning from the crossroads church and buried the little box in the quiet family plot . Kate moved through all the preparations and services in a state of bewilderment . She would not accept the death of such a little child . `` God called her to Him , the minister had said . God would not do that , Kate thought stubbornly . Jonathan letter came , as she knew it would , and he had accepted their child death as another judgment from God against both Kate and himself . In blind panic of grief she accepted Jonathan dictum , and believed in her desperation that she had been cursed by God . She held Jonathan letter , his words burning like a brand , and knew suddenly that the bonds between them were severed . She had nothing left but her duty to his land and his son . Joel came and sat mutely with her , sharing her pain and anguish , averting his eyes from the ice packs on her bosom . Juanita and Mrs . Tussle kept Kate in bed a week until her milk dried . When she returned to life in the big house she felt shriveled of all emotion save dedication to duty . She disciplined herself daily to do what must be done . She had even steeled herself to keep Juanita upstairs in the nurse room off the empty nursery , although the girl tried to insist on moving back to the quarters to spare Kate remembrance of the baby death . Juanita drooped about the place , wearing a haunted , brooding look , which Kate attributed to the baby death , until the day a letter came for her addressed to `` Miss Juanita Fitzroy , bearing a Grafton postmark . Seeing the slanting hand , Kate knew uneasily that it was from the Yankee colonel . The Federal forces had taken Parkersburg and Grafton from the Rebels and were moving to take all the mountains . Kate tried to contain her curiosity and foreboding at what the letter portended , at what involvement existed for Juanita . Uncle Randolph and Joel had replanted the bottom lands with difficulty , for more of the slaves , including Annie , had sneaked off when the soldiers broke camp . Joel worked like a field hand in the afternoons after school . He had been at lessons in the schoolhouse since they returned from Harpers Ferry . Kate felt she had deserted the boy in her own loss . She loved him and missed his company . Uncle Randolph had been riding out every evening on some secret business of his own . What it was Kate could not fathom . He claimed to be visiting the waterfront saloon at the crossroads to play cards and drink with his cronies , but Kate had not smelled brandy on him since Mrs . Lattimer funeral . Joel knew what he was about , however . `` You e gonna get caught , she heard Joel say to Uncle Randolph by the pump one morning . `` Not this old fox , chuckled Uncle Randolph . `` Everybody knows I just a harmless , deaf old man who takes to drink . I aim to keep a little whisky still back in the ridge for my pleasure . `` Whiskey still , my foot , said Joel . `` You e back there riding with the guerrillas , the Moccasin Rangers . `` Hush , said Uncle Randolph , smiling , `` or I l give you another black eye . He patted the eye Joel had had blackened in a fight over being Rebel at the crossroads some days back . Kate had no idea what they were talking of , although she had seen the blue lights and strange fires burning and winking on the ridges at night , had heard horsemen on the River Road and hill trails through the nights till dawn . Stranger , Uncle Randolph began riding home nights with a jug strapped to his saddle , drunkenly singing `` Old Dan Tucker at the top of his voice . Hearing his voice ring raucously up from the road , Kate would await him anxiously and watch perplexed as he walked into the house , cold sober . What he was about became clear to her with the circulation of another broadside proclamation by General McClellan , threatening reprisals against Rebel guerrillas . She was taken up in worry for the reckless old man . Kate drew more and more on her affection for Joel through the hot days of summer work . She had taken him out of the schoolhouse and closed the school for the summer , after she saw Miss Snow crack Joel across the face with a ruler for letting a snake loose in the schoolroom . Kate had walked past the school on her morning chores and had seen the whole incident , had seen Joel burning humiliation before Miss Snow cold , bespectacled wrath . He had the hardest pains of growing before him now , as he approached twelve . These would be his hardest years , she knew , and he missed his father desperately . She tried to find some way to draw him out , to help him . Whenever she found time , she went blackberry picking with him , and they would come home together , mouths purple , arms and faces scratched , tired enough to forget grief for another day . He tended the new colts Beau had sired . He helped Kate and Juanita enlarge the flower garden in the side yard , where they sometimes sat in the still evenings watching the last fat bees working against the summer purple dusk . No one went much to the crossroads now except Uncle Randolph . They stayed in their own world on the bluff , waiting for letters and the peddler , bringing the news . Jonathan wrote grimly of the destruction of Harpers Ferry before they abandoned it ; f their first engagement at Falling Waters after Old Jack First Brigade had destroyed all the rolling stock of the B & O Railroad . The men were restive , he wrote , ready to take the battle to the enemy as Jackson wished . The peddler came bawling his wares and told them of the convention in Wheeling , Which had formed a new state government by declaring the government at Richmond in the east illegal because they were traitors . Dangling his gaudy trinkets before them , he told of the Rebel losses in the mountains , at Cheat and Rich mountains both , and the Federal march on Beverly . `` Cleaned all them Rebs out the hills , they did ! They won never git over inter loyal western Virginia , them traitors ! The Federals is making everybody take the oath of loyalty around these parts too , he crowed . After he had gone , Kate asked Uncle Randolph proudly , `` Would you take their oath ? And the old man had given a sly and wicked laugh and said , `` Hell , yes ! I think I e taken it about fifty times already ! Winking at Joel look of shock . Her mother wrote Kate of her grief at the death of Kate baby and at Jonathan decision to go with the South `` And , dear Kate , she wrote , `` poor Dr . Breckenridge son Robert is now organizing a militia company to go South , to his good father sorrow . Maj . Anderson of Fort Sumter is home and recruiting volunteers for the U . S . Army . In spite of the fact that the state legislature voted us neutral , John Hunt Morgan is openly flying the Confederate flag over his woolen factory ! Rumor of a big battle spread like a grassfire up the valley . Accounts were garbled at the telegraph office when they sent old George down to Parkersburg for the news . `` All dey know down dere is it were at Manassas Junction and it were a big fight , the old man told them . In the next few days they had cause to rejoice . It had been a big battle , and the Confederate forces had won . Jonathan and Ben were not on the lists of the dead or on that of the missing . Kate and Mrs . Tussle waited for letters anxiously . Joel went to the crest of a hill behind the house and lit an enormous victory bonfire to celebrate . When Kate hurried in alarm to tell him to put it out , she saw other dots of flames among the western Virginia hills from the few scattered fires of the faithful . They all prayed now that the North would realize that peace must come , for Virginia had defended her land victoriously . The week after Manassas the sound of horses in the yard brought Kate up in shock from an afternoon rest when she saw the Federal soldiers from her upstairs window . They had already lost most of their corn , she thought . Were they to be insulted again because of the South great victory ? She remembered McClellan last proclamation as she hurried fearfully down the stairs . At the landing she saw Juanita , her face flushed pink with excitement , run down the hall from the kitchen to the front door . Juanita stopped just inside the open door , her hand to her mouth . As Kate came swiftly down the stairs to the hall she saw Colonel Marsh framed in the doorway , his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore . Kate greeted him gravely , uneasy with misgivings at his visit . `` What brings you here again , Colonel Marsh ? She asked , taking him and Juanita into the parlor where the shutters were closed against the afternoon sun . `` I stopped to say goodbye , Mrs . Lattimer , and to tell you how sorry I was to hear about your baby . I wish our doctor could have saved her . `` It was a terrible loss to me , said Kate quietly , feeling the pain twist again at the mention , knowing now that Juanita must have written to him at Grafton . `` Where will you go now that you e leaving Parkersburg ? She asked him , seeing Juanita eyes grow bleak . `` As you know , General McClellan has been occupying Beverly . He has notified me that he has orders to go to Washington to take over the Army of the Potomac . I am to go to Washington to serve with him . `` When are you to leave ? Kate asked , watching them both now anxiously . Their eyes betrayed too much of their emotions , she thought sadly . `` Tomorrow . Would you permit Juanita to walk about the grounds with me for a short spell , Mrs . Lattimer ? `` Stay here in the parlor where it cool , she said , trying to be calm . It would be better for Joel and Uncle Randolph and Mrs . Tussle not to see them . Kate went back and reminded the kitchen women of the supper preparations . Then she took iced lemonade to Marsh young aide where he sat in the cool of the big trees around the flower garden . When Marsh called to his aide and the pair rode off down the River Road where the gentians burned blue , Juanita was shaken and trying not to cry . She sought Kate out upstairs , her lips trembling . `` He wants me to go with him tomorrow , she told Kate . `` What do you want to do ? Kate asked , uneasy at the gravity of the girl dilemma . `` I could go with him . He knows me as your niece , which , of course , I am . But I am a slave ! You own me . It your decision , said Juanita , holding her face very still , trying to contain the bitterness of her voice as she enunciated her words too distinctly . `` No , the decision is yours . I have held your papers of manumission since I married Mr . Lattimer . 
The red glow from the cove had died out of the sky . The two in the bed knew each other as old people know the partners with whom they have shared the same bed for many years , and they needed to say no more . The things left unsaid they both felt deeply , and with a sigh they fell back on the well-stuffed pillows . Anita put out the remaining candles with a long snuffer , and in the smell of scented candlewick , the comforting awareness of each other bodies , the retained pattern of dancers and guests remembered , their minds grew numb and then empty of images . They slept -- Mynheer with a marvelously high-pitched snoring , the damn seahorse ivory teeth watching him from a bedside table . In the ballroom below , the dark had given way to moonlight coming in through the bank of French windows . It was a delayed moon , but now the sky had cleared of scudding black and the stars sugared the silver-gray sky . Martha Schuyler , old , slow , careful of foot , came down the great staircase , dressed in her best lace-drawn black silk , her jeweled shoe buckles held forward . `` Well , I here at last , she said , addressing the old portraits on the walls . `` I don hear the music . I am getting deaf , I must admit it . She came to the ballroom and stood on the two carpeted steps that led down to it . `` Where is everyone ? I say , where is everyone ? Peter , you lummox , you e forgot to order the musicians . She stood there , a large old woman , smiling at the things she would say to him in the morning , this big foolish baby of a son . There were times now , like this , when she lost control of the time count and moved freely back and forth into three generations . Was it a birthday ball ? When Peter had reached his majority at eighteen ? Or was it her own first ball as mistress of this big house , a Van Rensselaer bride from way upstate near Albany , from Rensselaerwyck . And this handsome booby , staring and sweating , was he her bridegroom ? Martha picked up the hem of her gown and with eyes closed she slowly began to dance a stately minuet around the ballroom . David Cortlandt was tired beyond almost the limits of his flesh . He had ridden hard from Boston , and he was not used to horseback . Now , driving the horse and sulky borrowed from Mynheer Schuyler , he felt as if every bone was topped by burning oil and that every muscle was ready to dissolve into jelly and leave his big body helpless and unable to move . The road leading south along the river was shaded with old trees , and in the moonlight the silvery landscape was like a setting for trolls and wood gods rather than the Hudson River Valley of his boyhood memories . He slapped the reins on the back of the powerful gray horse and held on as the sulky wheels hit a pothole and came out with a jolt and went on . He would cross to Manhattan , to Harlem Heights , before morning . There a certain farmhouse was a station for the Sons of Liberty . He would send on by trusted messenger the dispatches with their electrifying news . And he would sleep , sleep , and never think of roads and horses ' sore haunches , of colonial wars . Strange how everything here fitted back into his life , even if he had been away so long . Mynheer , Sir Francis , the valley society , the very smell of the river on his right purling along to the bay past fish weirs and rocks , and ahead the sleepy ribbon of moon-drenched road . A mist was walking on the water , white as cotton , but with a blending and merging grace . Ahead there was a stirring of sudden movement at a crossroads . David reached for the pair of pistols in the saddlebags at his feet . He pulled out one of them and cocked it . A strange wood creature came floating up from a patch of berry bushes . It was a grotesque hen , five or six feet tall . It had the features of a man bewhiskered by clumps of loose feathers . It ran , this apocalyptic beast , on two thin legs , and its wings -- were they feathered arms ? -- flapped as it ran . Its groin was bloody . Black strips of skin hung from it . The horse shied at the dreadful thing and flared its nostrils . David took a firm hand with it . The creature in feathers looked around and David saw the mad eyes , glazed with an insane fear . The ungainly bird thing ran away , and to David its croaking sounded like the crowing of a tormented rooster . Then it was gone . He drove on , wary and shaken . The Sons were out tonight . Chapter 10 New York lay bleaching in the summer sun , and the morning fish hawk , flying in the heated air , saw below him the long triangular wedge of Manhattan Island . It was thickly settled by fifteen thousand citizens and laid out into pig-infested streets , mostly around the Battery , going bravely north to Wall Street , but giving up and becoming fields and farms in the region of Harlem Heights . From there it looked across at Westchester County and the Hudson River where the manor houses , estates , and big farms of the original ( non-Indian ) landowners began . On the east side of the island of Manhattan the indifferent hawk knew the East River that connected New York Bay with Long Island Sound . On the western tip of Long Island protruded Brooklyn Heights . It commanded a view over Manhattan and the harbor . A fringe of housing and gardens bearded the top of the heights , and behind it were sandy roads leading past farms and hayfields . Husbandry was bounded by snake-rail fences , and there were grazing cattle . On the shores north and south , the fishers and mooncursers -- smugglers -- lived along the churning Great South Bay and the narrow barrier of sand , Fire Island . The morning hawk , hungry for any eatable , killable , digestible item , kept his eyes on the ring of anchored ships that lay off the shores in the bay , sheltered by the Jersey inlets . They often threw tidbits overboard . The larger ships were near Paulus Hook , already being called , by a few , Jersey City . These were the ships of His Majesty Navy , herding the hulks of the East Indies merchants and the yachts and ketches of the loyalists . The news of battle on Breed Hill had already seeped through , and New York itself was now left in the hands of the local Provincial Congress . The fish hawk , his wings not moving , circled and glided lower . The gilt sterns of the men-of-war becoming clearer to him , the sides of the wooden sea walls alternately painted yellow and black , the bronze cannon at the ports . The captain gig of H . M . S . Mercury was being rowed to H . M . S . Neptune . On shore `` the freed slaves to despotism -- the town dwellers -- watched the ships and waited . The chevaux de frise , those sharp stakes and barriers around the fort at the Battery , pointed to a conflict between the town and sea power rolling in glassy swells as the tide came in . Across the bay the Palisades were heavy in green timber ; heir rock paths led down to the Hudson . Below in the open bay facing Manhattan was Staten Island , gritty with clam shells and mud flats behind which nested farms , cattle barns , and berry thickets . Along Wappinger Creek in Dutchess County , past the white church at Fishkill , past Verplanck Point on the east bank of the Hudson , to the white salt-crusted roads of the Long Island Rockaways there was a watching and an activity of preparing for something explosive to happen . Today , tomorrow , six months , even perhaps a year The fish hawk flew on and was lost from sight . The British ships rolled at anchor , sent out picket boats and waited for orders from London . Waited for more ships , more lobster-backed infantry , and asked what was to be done with a war of rebellion ? David Cortlandt , having slept away a day and a night , came awake in a plank farmhouse on the Harlem River near Spuyten Duyvil . He looked out through windowpanes turned a faint violet by sun and weather , looked out at King Bridge toward Westchester . The road seemed animated with a few more wagons than usual ; carriage raising up the choking June dust , and beyond , in a meadow , a local militia company drilling with muskets , Kentuck ' rifles , every kind of horse pistol , old sword , or cutlass . The wraith-like events of the last few days flooded David mind and he rubbed his unshaved chin and felt again the ache in his kidneys caused by his saddle odyssey from Boston . Pensive , introspective , he ached . He had sent the dispatches downtown to the proper people and had slept . Now there was more to do . Orders not written down had to be transmitted to the local provincial government . He scratched his mosquito-plagued neck . From the saddlebags , hung on a Hitchcock chair , David took out a good English razor , a present from John Hunter . He found tepid water in a pitcher and a last bit of soap , and he lathered his face and stood stropping the razor on his broad leather belt , its buckle held firm by a knob of the bedpost . He hoped he was free of self-deception . Here he was , suddenly caught up in the delirium of a war , in the spite and calumny of Whigs and Tories . There would be great need soon for his skill as surgeon , but somehow he had not planned to use his knowledge merely for war . David Cortlandt had certain psychic intuitions that this rebellion was not wholly what it appeared on the surface . He knew that many were using it for their own ends . But it did not matter . He stropped the razor slowly ; hat mattered was that a new concept of Americans was being born . That some men did not want it he could understand . The moral aridity of merchants made them loyal usually to their ledgers . Yet some , like Morris Manderscheid , would bankrupt themselves for the new ideas . Unique circumstances would test us all , he decided . Injury and ingratitude would occur . No doubt John Hancock would do well now ; ar was a smugglers ' heaven . And what of that poor tarred and feathered wretch he had seen on the road driving down from Schuyler ? Things like that would increase rather than be done away with . One had to believe in final events or one was stranded in the abyss of nothing . He saw with John Hunter now that the perfectability of man was a dream . Life was a short play of tenebrous shadows . David began to shave with great sweeping strokes . Time plays an essential part in our mortality , and suddenly for no reason he could imagine ( or admit ) the image of Peg laughing filled his mind -- so desirable , so lusty , so full of nuances of pleasure and joy . He drove sensual patterns off , carefully shaving his long upper lip . It is harder , he muttered , to meditate on man ( or woman ) than on God . David finished shaving , washed his face clean of lather , and combed and retied his hair . He was proud that he had never worn a wig . More and more of the colonials were wearing their own hair and not using powder . He felt cheerful again , refreshed ; resentable in his wide-cut brown suit , the well-made riding boots . It is so easy to falsify sentiment . In the meadow below , militia officers shouted at their men and on King Bridge two boys sat fishing . The future would happen ; e did not have to hurry it by thinking too much . A man could be tossed outside the dimension of time by a stray bullet these days . He began to pack the saddlebags . And all this too shall pass away : it came to him out of some dim corner of memory from a church service when he was a boy -- yes , in a white church with a thin spur steeple in the patriarchal Hudson Valley , where a feeling of plenitude was normal in those English-Dutch manors with their well-fed squires . 
Burly leathered men and wrinkled women in drab black rags carried on in a primitive way , almost unchanged from feudal times . Peasants puzzled Andrei . He wondered how they could go on in poverty , superstition , ignorance , with a complete lack of desire to make either their land or their lives flourish . Andrei remembered a Bathyran meeting long ago . Tolek Alterman had returned from the colonies in Palestine and , before the national leadership , exalted the miracles of drying up swamps and irrigating the desert . A fund-raising drive to buy tractors and machinery was launched . Andrei remembered that his own reaction had been one of indifference . Had he found the meaning too late ? It aggravated him . The land of the Lublin Uplands was rich , but no one seemed to care . In the unfertile land in Palestine humans broke their backs pushing will power to the brink . He had sat beside Alexander Brandel at the rostrum of a congress of Zionists . All of them were there in this loosely knit association of diversified ideologies , and each berated the other and beat his breast for his own approaches . When Alexander Brandel rose to speak , the hall became silent . `` I do not care if your beliefs take you along a path of religion or a path of labor or a path of activism . We are here because all our paths travel a blind course through a thick forest , seeking human dignity . Beyond the forest all our paths merge into a single great highway which ends in the barren , eroded hills of Judea . This is our singular goal . How we travel through the forest is for each man conscience . Where we end our journey is always the same . We all seek the same thing through different ways -- an end to this long night of two thousand years of darkness and unspeakable abuses which will continue to plague us until the Star of David flies over Zion . This was how Alexander Brandel expressed pure Zionism . It had sounded good to Andrei , but he did not believe it . In his heart he had no desire to go to Palestine . He loathed the idea of drying up swamps or the chills of malaria or of leaving his natural birthright . Before he went into battle Andrei had told Alex , `` I only want to be a Pole . Warsaw is my city , not Tel Aviv . And now Andrei sat on a train on the way to Lublin and wondered if he was not being punished for his lack of belief . Warsaw ! He saw the smug eyes of the Home Army chief , Roman , and all the Romans and the faces of the peasants who held only hatred for him . They had let this black hole of death in Warsaw heart exist without a cry of protest . Once there had been big glittering rooms where Ulanys bowed and kissed the ladies ' hands as they flirted from behind their fans . Warsaw ! Warsaw ! `` Miss Rak . I am a Jew . Day by day , week by week , month by month , the betrayal gnawed at Andrei heart . He ground his teeth together . I hate Warsaw , he said to himself . I hate Poland and all the goddamned mothers ' sons of them . All of Poland is a coffin . The terrible vision of the ghetto streets flooded his mind . What matters now ? What is beyond this fog ? Only Palestine , and I will never live to see Palestine because I did not believe . By late afternoon the train inched into the marshaling yards in the railhead at Lublin , which was filled with lines of cars poised to pour the tools of war to the Russian front . At a siding , another train which was a familiar sight these days . Deportees . Jews . Andrei skilled eye sized them up . They were not Poles . He guessed by their appearance that they were Rumanians . He walked toward the center of the city to keep his rendezvous with Styka . Of all the places in Poland , Andrei hated Lublin the most . The Bathyrans were all gone . Few of the native Jews who had lived in Lublin were still in the ghetto . From the moment of the occupation Lublin became a focal point . He and Ana watched it carefully . Lublin generally was the forerunner of what would happen elsewhere . Early in 1939 , Odilo Globocnik , the Gauleiter of Vienna , established SS headquarters for all of Poland . The Bathyrans ran a check on Globocnik and had only to conclude that he was in a tug of war with Hans Frank and the civilian administrators . Globocnik built the Death -Head Corps . Lublin was the seed of action for the `` final solution of the Jewish problem . As the messages from Himmler , Heydrich , and Eichmann came in through Alfred Funk , Lublin fountainhead spouted . A bevy of interlacing lagers , work camps , concentration camps erupted in the area . Sixty thousand Jewish prisoners of war disappeared into Lublin web . Plans went in and out of Lublin , indicating German confusion . A tale of a massive reservation in the Uplands to hold several million Jews A tale of a plan to ship all Jews to the island of Madagascar Stories of the depravity of the guards at Globocnik camps struck a chord of terror at the mere mention of their names . Lipowa 7 , Sobibor , Chelmno , Poltawa , Belzec , Krzywy-Rog , Budzyn , Krasnik . Ice baths , electric shocks , lashings , wild dogs , testicle crushers . The Death -Head Corps took in Ukrainian and Baltic Auxiliaries , and the Einsatzkommandos waded knee-deep in blood and turned into drunken , dope-ridden maniacs . Lublin was their heart . In the spring of 1942 Operation Reinhard began in Lublin . The ghetto , a miniature of Warsaw , was emptied into the camp in the Majdan-Tartarski suburb called Majdanek . As the camp emptied , it was refilled by a draining of the camps and towns around Lublin , then by deportees from outside Poland . In and in and in they poured through the gates of Majdanek , but they never left , and Majdanek was not growing any larger . What was happening in Majdanek ? Was Operation Reinhard the same pattern for the daily trains now leaving the Umschlagplatz in Warsaw ? Was there another Majdanek in the Warsaw area , as they suspected ? Andrei stopped at Litowski Place and looked around quickly at the boundary of civil buildings . His watch told him he was still early . Down the boulevard he could see a portion of the ghetto wall . He found an empty bench , opened a newspaper , and stretched his legs before him . Krakow Boulevard was filled with black Nazi uniforms and the dirty brownish ones of their Auxiliaries . `` Captain Androfski ! Andrei glanced up over the top of the paper and looked into the mustached , homely face of Sergeant Styka . Styka sat beside him and pumped his hand excitedly . `` I have been waiting across the street at the post office since dawn . I thought you might get in on a morning train . `` It good to see you again , Styka . Styka studied his captain . He almost broke into tears . To him , Andrei Androfski had always been the living symbol of a Polish officer . His captain was thin and haggard and his beautiful boots were worn and shabby . `` Remember to call me Jan , Andrei said . Styka nodded and sniffed and blew his nose vociferously . `` When that woman found me and told me that you needed me I was never so happy since before the war . `` I lucky that you were still living in Lublin . Styka grumbled about fate . `` For a time I thought of trying to reach the Free Polish Forces , but one thing led to another . I got a girl in trouble and we had to get married . Not a bad girl . So we have three children and responsibilities . I work at the granary . Nothing like the old days in the army , but I get by . Who complains ? Many times I tried to reach you , but I never knew how . I came to Warsaw twice , but there was that damned ghetto wall `` I understand . Styka blew his nose again . `` Were you able to make the arrangements ? Andrei asked . `` There is a man named Grabski who is the foreman in charge of the bricklayers at Majdanek . I did exactly as instructed . I told him you are on orders from the Home Army to get inside Majdanek so you can make a report to the government in exile in London . `` His answer ? `` Ten thousand zlotys . `` Can he be trusted ? `` He is aware he will not live for twenty-four hours if he betrays you . `` Good man , Styka . `` Captain Jan must you go inside Majdanek ? The stories Everyone really knows what is happening there . `` Not everyone , Styka . `` What good will it really do ? `` I don know . Perhaps perhaps there is a shred of conscience left in the human race . Perhaps if they know the story there will be a massive cry of indignation . `` Do you really believe that , Jan ? `` I have to believe it . Styka shook his head slowly . `` I am only a simple soldier . I cannot think things out too well . Until I was transferred into the Seventh Ulanys I was like every other Pole in my feeling about Jews . I hated you when I first came in . But my captain might have been a Jew , but he wasn a Jew . What I mean is , he was a Pole and the greatest soldier in the Ulanys . Hell , sir . The men of our company had a dozen fights defending your name . You never knew about it , but by God , we taught them respect for Captain Androfski . Andrei smiled . `` Since the war I have seen the way the Germans have behaved and I think , Holy Mother , we have behaved like this for hundreds of years . Why ? `` How can you tell an insane man to reason or a blind man to see ? `` But we are neither blind nor insane . The men of your company would not allow your name dishonored . Why do we let the Germans do this ? `` I have sat many hours with this , Styka . All I ever wanted was to be a free man in my own country . I e lost faith , Styka . I used to love this country and believe that someday we win our battle for equality . But now I think I hate it very much . `` And do you really think that the world outside Poland will care any more than we do ? The question frightened Andrei . `` Please don go inside Majdanek . `` I still a soldier in a very small way , Styka . It was an answer that Styka understood . Grabski shanty was beyond the bridge over the River Bystrzyca near the rail center . Grabski sat in a sweat-saturated undershirt , cursing the excessive heat which clamped an uneasy stillness before sundown . He was a square brick of a man with a moon-round face and sunken Polish features . Flies swarmed around the bowl of lentils in which he mopped thick black bread . Half of it dripped down his chin . He washed it down with beer and produced a deep-seated belch . `` Well ? Andrei demanded . Grabski looked at the pair of them . He grunted a sort of `` yes answer . `` My cousin works at the Labor Bureau . He can make you work papers . It will take a few days . I will get you inside the guard camp as a member of my crew . I don know if I can get you into the inner camp . Maybe yes , maybe no , but you can observe everything from the roof of a barrack we are building . Grabski slurped his way to the bottom of the soup bowl . `` Can understand why the hell anyone wants to go inside that son-of-a-bitch place . `` Orders from the Home Army . `` Why ? Nothing there but Jews . Andrei shrugged . `` We get strange orders . `` Well -- what about the money ? Andrei peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes . Grabski had never seen so much money . His broad flat fingers , petrified into massive sausages by years of bricklaying , snatched the bills clumsily . `` This ain enough . `` You get the rest when I safely out of Majdanek . `` I ain taking no goddamned chances for no Jew business . Andrei and Styka were silent . 
She was getting real dramatic . I have been more impressed if I hadn remembered that she played Hedda Gabler in her highschool dramatics course . I didn want her back on that broken record . `` Nothing free in the whole goddam world , was all I could think of to say . When I delivered myself of that gem there was nothing to do but order up another drink . `` I am , she said . I forgotten all about Thelma and the Kentucky Derby and how it was Thelma fifty dollars I was spending . It was just me and Eileen getting drunk together like we used to in the old days , and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my hands on her partly because I wanted to wring her neck because she was so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch . Drunk or sober she was the most attractive woman in the world for me . I was crazy about her all over again . It was the call of the wild all right . That evening turned out to be hell like all the others . We moved down Broadway from ginmill to ginmill . It was the same old routine . Eileen got to dancing , just a little tiny dancing step to a hummed tune that you could hardly notice , and trying to pick up strange men , but each time I was ready to say to hell with it and walk out she pull herself together and talk so understandingly in that sweet husky voice about the good times and the happiness we had together and there I was back on the hook . I did have the decency to call up Thelma and tell her I met old friends and would be home late . `` I could scratch her eyes out , Eileen cried and stamped her foot when I came back from the phone booth . `` You know I don like my men to have other women . I hate it . I hate it . She got so drunk I had to take her home . It was a walk up on Hudson Street . She just about made me carry her upstairs and then she clung to me and wouldn let me go . There was a man jacket on the chair and a straw hat on the table . The place smelt of some kind of hair lotion these pimplike characters use . `` What about Ballestre ? I had to shake her to make her listen . `` Precious . What about him ? Suddenly she was very mysterious and dramatic . `` Precious and I allow each other absolute freedom . We are above being jealous . He used to me bringing home strange men . I l just tell him you e my husband . He can object to that . `` Well I object . If he pokes his nose in here I l slug him . `` That really would be funny . She began to laugh . She was still laughing when I grabbed her and started rolling her on the bed . After all I made of flesh and blood . I not a plaster saint . Waking up was horrible . Never in my life have I felt so remorseful about anything I e done as I did about spending that night with my own wife . We both had hangovers . Eileen declared she couldn lift her head from the pillow . She lay under the covers making jabbing motions with her forefinger telling me where to look for the coffeepot . I was stumbling in my undershirt trying to find my way around her damn kitchenette when I smelt that sickish sweet hairtonic smell . There was somebody else in the apartment . I stiffened . Honest I could feel the hair stand up on the back of my neck like a dog that is going to get into a fight . I turned around with the percolator in my hand . My eyes were so bleary I could barely see him but there he was , a little smooth olivefaced guy in a new spring overcoat and a taffycolored fedora . Brown eyes , eyebrow mustache . Oval face without an expression in the world . We didn have time to speak before Eileen voice was screeching at us from the bed . `` Joseph Maria Ballestre meet Francis Xavier Bowman . Exboyfriend meet exhusband . She gave the nastiest laugh I ever heard . `` And don either of you forget that I not any man property . If you want to fight , go down on the sidewalk . She was enjoying the situation . Imagine that . Eileen was a psychologist all right . Instead of wanting to sock the poor bastard I found myself having a fellowfeeling for him . Maybe he felt the same way . I never felt such a lowdown hound in my life . First thing I knew he was in the kitchenette cooking up the breakfast and I was handing Eileen her coffeecup and she was lying there handsome as a queen among her courtiers . I couldn face Thelma after that night . I didn even have the nerve to call her on the telephone . I wrote her that I met up with Eileen and that old bonds had proved too strong and asked her to send my clothes down by express . Of course I had to give her Eileen address , but she never came near us . All she did was write me a pleasant little note about how it was beautiful while it lasted but that now life had parted our ways and it was goodbye forever . She never said a word about the fifty dollars . She added a postscript begging me to be careful about drinking . I must know that that was my greatest weakness underlined three times . Afterwards I learned that Eileen had called Thelma on the telephone and made a big scene about Thelma trying to take her husband away . That finished me with Thelma . Trust Eileen to squeeze all the drama out of a situation . And there I was shacked up with Eileen in that filthy fourth floor attic on Hudson Street . I use the phrase advisedly because there was something positively indecent about our relationship . I felt it and it ate on me all the time , but I didn know how right I was till later . What I did know was that Precious was always around . He slept in the hall bedroom at the head of the stairs . `` Who do you think pays the rent ? You wouldn have me throw the poor boy out on the street , Eileen said when I needled her about it . I said sure that was what I wanted her to do but she paid no attention . Eileen had a wonderful way of not listening to things she didn want to hear . Still I didn think she was twotiming me with Precious right then . To be on the safe side I never let Eileen get out of my sight day or night . Precious had me worried . I couldn make out what his racket was . I thought him a pimp or procurer but he didn seem to be . He was smooth and civil spoken but it seemed to me there was something tough under his selfeffacing manner . Still he let Eileen treat him like a valet . Whenever the place was cleaned or a meal served it was Precious who did the work . I never could find out what his business was . He always seemed to have money in his pocket . The phone had been disconnected but telegrams came for him and notes by special messenger . Now and then he would disappear for several days . `` Connections was all he would say with that smooth hurt smile when I put leading questions . `` Oh he just an international spy , Eileen would shout with her screechy laugh . Poor devil he can have been too happy either . He got no relief from drink because , though sometimes Precious would buy himself a drink if he went out with us in the evening , he leave it on the table untouched . When I was in liquor I rode him pretty hard I guess . Occasionally if I pushed him too far he give me a look out of narrowed eyes and the hard cruel bony skull would show through that smooth face of his . `` Some day , I told Eileen , `` that guy will kill us both . She just wouldn listen . Getting drunk every night was the only way I could handle the situation . Eileen seemed to feel the same way . We still had that much in common . The trouble was drinking cost money . The way Eileen and I were hitting it up , we needed ten or fifteen dollars an evening . Eileen must have wheedled a little out of Precious . I raised some kale by hocking the good clothes I had left over from my respectable uptown life , but when that was gone I didn have a cent . I don know what we would have done if Pat O wyer hadn come to town . Pat O wyer looked like a heavier Jim . He had the same bullet head of curly reddish hair but he didn have Jim pokerfaced humor or his brains or his charm . He was a big thick beefy violent man . Now Pat may have been a lecher and a plugugly , but he was a good churchgoing Catholic and he loved his little sister . Those O wyers had that Irish clannishness that made them stick together in spite of politics and everything . Pat took Eileen and me out to dinner at a swell steak house and told us with tears in his eyes how happy he was we had come together again . `` Whom God hath joined etcetera . The O wyers were real religious people except for Kate . Now it would be up to me to keep the little girl out of mischief . Pat had been worried as hell ever since she lost her job on that fashion magazine . It had gone big with the Hollywood girls when he told them his sister was an editor of Art And Apparel . How about me trying to help her get her job back ? All evening Eileen had been as demure as a little girl getting ready for her first communion . It just about blew us both out of the water when Eileen suddenly came out with what she came out with . `` But brother I can take a job right now , she said with her eyes on her ice cream , `` I going to have a baby , Francis Xavier baby , my own husband baby . My first thought was how had it happened so soon , but I counted back on my fingers and sure enough we been living together six weeks . Pat meanwhile was bubbling over with sentiment . Greatest thing that ever happened . Now Eileen really would have to settle down to love honor and obey , and she have to quit drinking . He come East for the christening , by God he would . When we separated that evening Pat pushed a hundred dollar bill into Eileen hand to help towards a layette . Before he left town Pat saw to it that I was fixed up with a job . Pat had contacts all over the labor movement . A friend of Pat named Frank Sposato had just muscled into the Portwatchers ' Union . The portwatchers were retired longshoremen and small time seafarers off towboats and barges who acted as watchmen on the wharves . Most of them were elderly men . It was responsible and sometimes dangerous work because the thieving is awful in the port of New York . They weren as well paid as they should have been . One reason the portwatchers let Sposato take them over was to get the protection of his musclemen . Sposato needed a front , some labor stiff with a clean record to act as business agent of the Redhook local . There I was a retired wobbly and structural iron worker who never gouged a cent off a fellow worker in my thirty years in the movement . For once radicalism was a recommendation . Sposato couldn wait to get me hired . With my gray hair and my weatherbeaten countenance I certainly looked the honest working stiff . The things a man will do for a woman . 
There was one fact which Rector could not overlook , one truth which he could not deny . As long as there were two human beings working together on the same project , there would be competition and you could no more escape it than you could expect to escape the grave . No matter how devoted a man was , no matter how fully he gave his life to the Lord , he could never extinguish that one spark of pride that gave him definition as an individual . All of the jobs in the mission might be equal in the eyes of the Lord , but they were certainly not equal in the eyes of the Lord servants . It was only natural that Fletcher would strive for a position in which he could make the decisions . Even Rector himself was prey to this spirit of competition and he knew it , not for a more exalted office in the hierarchy of the church -- his ambitions for the bishopry had died very early in his career -- but for the one clear victory he had talked about to the colonel . He was not sure how much of this desire was due to his devotion to the church and how much was his own ego , demanding to be satisfied , for the two were intertwined and could not be separated . He wanted desperately to see Kayabashi defeated , the Communists in the village rooted out , the mission standing triumphant , for in the triumph of the Lord he himself would be triumphant , too . But perhaps this was a part of the eternal plan , that man ambition when linked with God would be a driving , indefatigable force for good in the world . He sighed . How foolish it was to try to fathom the truth in an area where only faith would suffice . He would have to work without questioning the motives which made him work and content himself with the thought that the eventual victory , however it was brought about , would be sweet indeed . His first move was to send Hino to the village to spend a few days . His arm had been giving him some trouble and Rector was not enough of a medical expert to determine whether it had healed improperly or whether Hino was simply rebelling against the tedious work in the print shop , using the stiffness in his arm as an excuse . In any event Rector sent him to the local hospital to have it checked , telling him to keep his ears open while he was in the village to see if he could find out what Kayabashi was planning . Hino was elated at the prospect . He was allowed to spend his nights at an inn near the hospital and he was given some extra money to go to the pachinko parlor -- an excellent place to make contact with the enemy . He left with all the joyous spirit of a child going on a holiday , nodding attentively as Rector gave him his final instructions . He was to get involved in no arguments ; e was to try to make no converts ; e was simply to listen and report back what he heard . It was a ridiculous situation and Rector knew it , for Hino , frankly partisan , openly gregarious , would make a poor espionage agent . If he wanted to know anything , he would end up asking about it point-blank , but in this guileless manner he would probably receive more truthful answers than if he tried to get them by indirection . In all of his experience in the mission field Rector had never seen a convert quite like Hino . From the moment that Hino had first walked into the mission to ask for a job , any job -- his qualifications neatly written on a piece of paper in a precise hand -- he had been ready to become a Christian . He had already been studying the Bible ; e knew the fundamentals , and after studying with Fletcher for a time he approached Rector , announced that he wanted to be baptized and that was that . Rector had never been able to find out much about Hino past . Hino talked very little about himself except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject . Putting the pieces of this mosaic together , Rector had the vague outlines of a biography . Hino was the fourth son of an elderly farmer who lived on the coast , in Chiba , and divided his life between the land and the sea , supplementing the marginal livelihood on his small rented farm with seasonal employment on a fishing boat . Without exception Hino brothers turned to either one or both of their father occupations , but Hino showed a talent for neither and instead spent most of his time on the beach where he repaired nets and proved immensely popular as a storyteller . He had gone into the Japanese navy , had been trained as an officer , had participated in one or two battles -- he never went into detail regarding his military experience -- and at the age of twenty-five , quite as a bolt out of the blue , he had walked into the mission as if he belonged here and had become a Christian . Rector was often curious ; ften tempted to ask questions but he never did . If and when Hino decided to tell him about his experiences , he would do so unasked . Rector had no doubt that Hino would come back from the village bursting with information , ready to impart it with his customary gusto , liberally embellished with his active imagnation . When the telephone rang on the day after Hino went down to the village , Rector had a hunch it would be Hino with some morsel of information too important to wait until his return , for there were few telephones in the village and the phone in Rector office rarely rang unless it was important . He was surprised to find Kayabashi secretary on the other end of the line . He was even more startled when he heard what Kayabashi wanted . The oyabun was entertaining a group of dignitaries , the secretary said , businessmen from Tokyo for the most part , and Kayabashi wished to show them the mission . They had never seen one before and had expressed a curiosity about it . `` Oh ? Rector said . `` I guess it will be all right . When would the oyabun like to bring his guests up here ? `` This afternoon , the secretary said . `` At three o lock if it will be of convenience to you at that time . `` All right , Rector said . `` I will be expecting them . He was about to hang up the phone , but a note of hesitancy in the secretary voice left the conversation open . He had something more to say . `` I beg to inquire if the back is now safe for travelers , he said . Rector laughed despite himself . `` Unless the oyabun has been working on it , he said , then checked himself and added : `` You can tell Kayabashi-san that the back road is in very good condition and will be quite safe for his party to use . `` Arigato gosaimasu . The secretary sighed with relief and then the telephone clicked in Rector hand . Rector had no idea why Kayabashi wanted to visit the mission . For the oyabun to make such a trip was either a sign of great weakness or an indication of equally great confidence , and from all the available information it was probably the latter . Kayabashi must feel fairly certain of his victory in order to make a visit like this , a trip which could be so easily misinterpreted by the people in the village . At the same time , it was unlikely that any businessmen would spend a day in a Christian mission out of mere curiosity . No , Kayabashi was bringing his associates here for a specific purpose and Rector would not be able to fathom it until they arrived . When he had given the call a few moments thought , he went into the kitchen to ask Mrs . Yamata to prepare tea and sushi for the visitors , using the formal English china and the silver tea service which had been donated to the mission , then he went outside to inspect the grounds . Fujimoto had a pile of cuttings near one side of the lawn . Rector asked him to move it for the time being ; e wanted the mission compound to be effortlessly spotless . A good initial impression would be important now . He went into the print shop , where Fletcher had just finished cleaning the press . `` How many pamphlets do we have in stock ? Rector said . `` I should say about a hundred thousand , Fletcher said . `` Why ? `` I would like to enact a little tableau this afternoon , Rector said , He explained about the visit and the effect he wished to create , the picture of a very busy mission . He did not wish to deceive Kayabashi exactly , just to display the mission activities in a graphic and impressive manner . Fletcher nodded as he listened to the instructions and said he would arrange the things Rector requested . Rector next stop was at the schoolroom , where Mavis was monitoring a test . He beckoned to her from the door and she slipped quietly outside . He told her of the visitors and then of his plans . `` How many children do you have present today ? He said . She looked back toward the schoolroom . `` Fifteen , she said . `` No , only fourteen . The little Ito girl had had to go home . She has a pretty bad cold . `` I would like them to appear very busy today , not busy exactly , but joyous , exuberant , full of life . I want to create the impression of a compound full of children . Do you think you can manage it ? Mavis smiled . `` I l try . As Rector was walking back toward the residential hall , Johnson came out of the basement and bounded up to him . The altercation in the coffee house had done little to dampen his spirits , but he was still a little wary around Rector for they had not yet discussed the incident . `` I think I e fixed the pump so we won have to worry about it for a long time , he said . `` I e adjusted the gauge so that the pump cuts out before the water gets too low . `` Fine , Rector said . He looked out over the expanse of the compound . It was going to take a lot of activity to fill it . `` Have you ever operated a transit ? He said . `` No , sir , Johnson said . `` You are about to become a first-class surveyor , Rector said . `` When Konishi gets back with the jeep , I want you to round up two or three Japanese boys . Konishi can help you . You l find an old transit in the basement . The glass is out of it , but that won matter . It looks pretty efficient and that the important thing . He went on to explain what he had in mind . Johnson nodded . He said he could do it . Rector was warming to his over-all strategy by the time he got back to the residential hall . It was rather a childish game , all in all , but everybody seemed to be getting into the spirit of the thing and he could not remember when he had enjoyed planning anything quite so much . He was not sure what effect it would have , but that was really beside the point when you got right down to it . He was not going to lose the mission by default , and whatever reason Kayabashi had for bringing his little sight-seeing group to the mission , he was going to be in for a surprise . He found Elizabeth in the parlor and asked her to make sure everything was in order in the residential hall , and then to take charge of the office while the party was here . When everything had been done , Rector went back to his desk to occupy himself with his monthly report until three o lock . At two thirty he sent Fujimoto to the top of the wall at the northeast corner of the mission to keep an eye on the ridge road and give a signal when he first glimpsed the approach of Kayabashi party . Then Rector , attired in his best blue serge suit , sat in a chair out on the lawn , in the shade of a tree , smoking a cigarette and waiting . The air was cooler here , and the lacy pattern of the trees threw a dappled shadow on the grass , an effect which he found pleasant . 
Dan Morgan told himself he would forget Ann Turner . He was well rid of her . He certainly didn want a wife who was fickle as Ann . If he had married her , he have been asking for trouble . But all of this was rationalization . Sometimes he woke up in the middle of the night thinking of Ann , and then could not get back to sleep . His plans and dreams had revolved around her so much and for so long that now he felt as if he had nothing . The easiest thing would be to sell out to Al Budd and leave the country , but there was a stubborn streak in him that wouldn allow it . The best antidote for the bitterness and disappointment that poisoned him was hard work . He found that if he was tired enough at night , he went to sleep simply because he was too exhausted to stay awake . Each day he found himself thinking less often of Ann ; ach day the hurt was a little duller , a little less poignant . He had plenty of work to do . Because the summer was unusually dry and hot , the spring produced a smaller stream than in ordinary years . The grass in the meadows came fast , now that the warm weather was here . He could not afford to lose a drop of the precious water , so he spent most of his waking hours along the ditches in his meadows . He had no idea how much time Budd would give him . In any case , he had no intention of being caught asleep , so he carried his revolver in its holster on his hip and he took his Winchester with him and leaned it against the fence . He stopped every few minutes and leaned on his shovel as he studied the horizon , but nothing happened , each day dragging out with monotonous calm . When , in late afternoon on the last day in June , he saw two people top the ridge to the south and walk toward the house , he quit work immediately and strode to his rifle . It could be some kind of trick Budd had thought up . No one walked in this country , least of all Ed Dow or Dutch Renfro or any of the rest of the Bar B crew . Morgan watched the two figures for a time , puzzled . When they were closer and he saw that one was a woman , he was more puzzled than ever . He cleaned his shovel , left it against the fence , picked up his Winchester , and started downstream . His visitors had crawled through the south fence and were crossing the meadow , angling toward the house . Now he saw that both the man and woman were moving slowly and irregularly , staggering , as if they found it a struggle to remain on their feet . Reaching the house ahead of them , he waited with his Winchester in his hands . They crawled through the north fence and came on toward him , and now he saw that both were young , not more than nineteen or twenty . They were dirty , their clothes were torn , and the girl was so exhausted that she fell when she was still twenty feet from the front door . She lay there , making no effort to get back on her feet . The boy came on to the porch and sat down , his gaze on Morgan as if half expecting him to shoot and not really caring . Morgan hesitated , thinking that if this was a trick , it was a good one . He didn think it was possible for this couple to be pretending . The boy licked his dry lips . He asked , `` Could we have a drink ? Morgan jerked his head toward the front door . `` In the kitchen , he said . Leaning his Winchester against the front of the house , he walked to the girl . `` Get up . There water in the house . She didn move or say anything . Her eyes were glazed as if she didn hear or even see him . She had reached a point at which she didn even care how she looked . Her face was very thin , and burned by the sun until much of the skin was dead and peeling , the new skin under it red and angry . Her blond hair was frowzy , her dress torn in several places , and her shoes were so completely worn out that they were practically no protection . It must have hurt her even to walk , for the sole was completely off her left foot and Morgan saw that it was bruised and bleeding . He picked her up , sliding one hand under her shoulders , the other under her knees , and carried her into the house . She was amazingly light , and so relaxed in his arms that he wasn even sure she was conscious . Any lingering suspicion that this was a trick Al Budd had thought up was dispelled . No girl would go this far to fool a man so she could kill him . Besides , she had a sweet face that attracted him . He put her down on the couch , and going into the kitchen , saw that the boy had dropped into a chair beside the table . They looked a good deal alike , Morgan thought . Both had blonde hair and blue eyes , and there was even a faint similarity of features . Morgan filled the dipper from the water bucket on the shelf , went back into the front room , lifted the girl head , and held the edge of the dipper to her mouth . She drank greedily , and murmured , `` Thank you , as he lowered her head . He stood looking down at her for a moment , wondering what could have reduced her to this condition . He had seen a few nester wagons go through the country , the families almost starving to death , but he had never seen any of them on foot and as bad off as these two . The girl dropped off to sleep . Morgan returned to the kitchen , built a fire , and carried in several buckets of water from the spring which he poured into the copper boiler that he had placed on the stove . He brought his Winchester in from the front of the house , then faced the boy . `` Who are you and what happened to you ? He asked . `` I Billy Jones , the boy answered . `` That my wife Sharon . We ran out of money and we haven eaten for two days . `` What are you doing here ? `` Are we in Wyoming ? Morgan nodded . `` About five miles north of the line . Jones sighed as if relieved . `` We e been looking for work , but all the ranchers have turned us down . `` You mean you dragged your wife all over hell half-acre looking for work ? Morgan demanded . `` The town of Buckhorn only about six miles from here . Why didn you go there ? `` We didn want town work , Jones said . `` This is a mighty empty country , Morgan said . `` There only one more ranch three miles north of here . You have starved to death if you missed both places . `` Then we e lucky we got here . Could you give us a job , Mr . `` Morgan . Dan Morgan . He was silent a moment , thinking he could use a man this time of year , and if the girl could cook , it would give him more time in the meadows , but he knew nothing about the couple . They might kill him in his sleep , thinking there was money in the house . He dismissed the possibility at once . The girl thin face haunted him . It wasn the face of a killer . He wasn so sure about the boy . He hadn shaved for several weeks , his sparse beard giving his face a pathetic , woebegone expression . There was more to this than Jones had told him . They were running from something . He be an idiot to let them stay he thought , but he couldn send them on , either . `` I could use some help , Morgan said finally , `` but I can afford to pay you anything . I guess you better go on in the morning . `` We l work for our keep , the boy said eagerly . `` I e been mucking in a mine in the San Juan , but I used to work on a ranch . Sharon , she cooked in a restaurant . We l work hard , Mr . Morgan . `` I l see , Morgan said . `` Right now you need a meal and a bath . Your wife in terrible shape . `` I know , Jones said dejectedly . Morgan filled the fire box with wood again , then started supper and set the table . When the meal was ready , he told Jones to wash up , and going into the front room , woke the girl . He said , `` I e got some supper ready . She rubbed her eyes and stretched , then sat up , her hands going to her hair . `` I a mess , she said , and suddenly she was alarmed . `` Who are you ? How did we get here ? `` I Dan Morgan . This is the Rafter Aj . You fell down in front of the house , and I carried you in . I gave you a drink and then you went to sleep . `` Oh . She stared at him , her eyes wide as she thought about what he had said ; hen she murmured : `` You e very kind , Mr . Morgan . Do you take in all the strays who come by ? `` I don have many strays coming to my front door , he said . `` Think you can walk to the table ? `` Of course . She got to her feet , staggered , and almost fell . He caught her by an arm and helped her into the kitchen . She sat down at the table , shaking her head . `` I sorry , Mr . Morgan . I usually a very strong woman , but I awfully tired . `` And hungry , he said . `` Start in . It not much of a meal , but it what I eat . `` Not much of a meal ? The girl cried . `` Mr . Morgan , it the best-looking food I ever saw . He told himself he had never seen two people eat so much . When they were finally satisfied , Jones said , `` I think he going to give us work . The grateful way she looked at Morgan made him ashamed of himself . When he saw the expression in her eyes , he knew he couldn send them on . She said , `` I guess the Lord looks out for fools , drunkards , and innocents . Morgan laughed . `` Which are you ? `` We e not drunkards , she said . `` That all I sure of . She helped him with the dishes , then he brought more water in from the spring before it got dark . He carried the tub from the back of the house where it hung from a nail in the wall . He said : `` You l feel a lot better after you have a bath . Your feet are in bad shape , Mrs . Jones . You l have to go to town to see the doc . `` No , she l be all right , Jones said quickly . `` I mean , we don have any way to get there and we can expect you to quit work just to take us to town . `` We l see , Morgan said . `` Could you find me a needle and thread ? The girl asked . `` My dress needs some work on it . He nodded and , going into the bedroom , brought a needle , thread , and scissors . He said : `` I going to bed . He nodded at the door in front of him . `` That my spare bedroom . The bed isn made , but you l find plenty of blankets there . `` You e awfully kind , the girl said . `` We l pay you back if you l let us . Some way . `` It all right , he said . `` I get up early . You better sleep . Jones followed him into the front room , closing the door behind him . He said : `` If it all right with you , Mr . Morgan , I l sleep out here on the couch . We haven slept together since we started . I just can take any chances on getting her pregnant , and if we were sleeping together He stopped , embarrassed , and Morgan said , `` I understand that , but I don savvy why you go off and leave your jobs in the first place . `` We got fired , Jones said . `` We had to do something . They were a pair of lost , whipped kids , Morgan thought as he went to bed . 
Gavin paused wearily . `` You can stay here with me . It late and you said they be here by dawn . `` You can make me go . Gavin sank down again into his chair and began to rock . He was thinking of Rittenhouse and how he had left him there , to rock to death on the porch of the Splendide . It was the only thing in his life for which he felt guilt . Beneath his black shirt his frail shoulders shook and croaks of pain broke from his throat , the stored pain shattering free in slow gasps , terrible to see . Clayton tried to call back the face of the man he had known . Against that other man he could rally his anger ; gainst this bent man in the chair he was powerless . Gavin lips moved so that Clayton had to stoop to catch the words . `` Do you remember Big Charlie ? He whispered . `` He stuck with me all these years . Just a half-breed ache , never said much , never meant anythin to me , but he stuck with me . He got into a fight with Tom English , your brother son . It was a fair fight , the boy provoked it -- Big Charlie told me so . I believed him . They killed Big Charlie , dumped his body in my rose garden two nights ago . My men , they all left me . Just cleared out . I didn understand why , Clay . They just all cleared out . I treated them fair He wiped his lips with a sleeve , then stared at Clayton in a childish kind of wonder . `` Do you mean -- he asked almost shyly -- `` you want me to go with you , wherever you e goin ? `` Yes . `` You don hate me any more ? Clayton choked , shook his head , murmuring , `` No . `` Come here . The old man beckoned with one finger and Clayton went forward to him . Gavin slipped his arms around his chest and hugged him fiercely . `` All my life , he said , `` I tried . I tried . I saw you driftin away -- but I tried . And you wanted no part of me when I had so much to give . Now there nothin left of me . Laurel is gone , my men are gone , Ed is dead -- and you come to me , to help me . Oh ! God in Heaven , I can refuse you now . That would mock me too much ! Can let you go way from me again He closed his eyes , ashamed of his tears . `` I l go , Clay . Clayton freed himself from the embrace and stepped back . The eyes followed him fearfully . `` The horses . There isn much time . I l saddle the horses and bring them round . You get ready He burst from the hot confinement of the room into the cold night air . Gavin stallion was in the barn and he tightened the cinches over the saddle blanket , working by touch in the darkness , comforting the animal with easy words . When he had finished he led him and the mare to the porch . The stallion had smelled the mare coming into heat and began to paw the turf , shaking his head . Clayton looped the reins in a knot over the veranda post and patted the warm flesh of his neck . The mare had backed away . `` You take it easy , boy , Clayton whispered . `` She doesn want you now . You take it easy , your time will come . Gavin stood on the porch , a thin figure . He had taken a carbine down from the wall and it trailed from his hand , the stock bumping on the wood floor . Clayton called to him and he came slowly down the steps . `` Clay , he said , `` where are we goin ? `` To a ranch in the valley . There someone there I have to see . We may take her with us -- to California . I don know yet , it crazy ; have to think about it . But California is where we e goin . `` California . Gavin began to nod . `` That a new land . A man could make a mark there . Two men , together like us , we could do somethin fine out there , maybe find a place where no one ever been . Start out fresh , the two of us , like nothin had ever happened . `` Yes , like a father and son . `` I made you what you are , Gavin whispered . `` I made you so you could stand up . I made you a man . `` Yes , Gavin , you did . He approached the horse and laid a hand on the stallion quivering neck . `` Help me up , Clay . Help me up , I feel kind of stiff . Clayton lifted him gently into the saddle , like a child . `` I hate to leave my garden , Gavin said . `` They l trample it down . I loved my garden . `` It will grow again -- in California . `` I loved this valley , he whispered huskily . `` Lived alone here for three years , before any man came . Lived alone by the river . It was nice then , so peaceful and quiet . There was no one but me . I don want to leave it . Clayton swung into the saddle and whacked the stallion rump . The two horses broke from the yard , from the circle of light cast by the lamp still burning in the house , into the darkness . Thirty-five they rode at a measured pace through the valley . Dawn would come soon and the night was at its coldest . The moon had sunk below the black crest of the mountains and the land , seen through eyes that had grown accustomed to the absence of light , looked primeval , as if no man had ever trespassed before . It looked as Gavin had first seen it years ago , on those nights when he slept alone by his campfire and waked suddenly to the hoot of an owl or the rustle of a blade of grass in the moon wind -- a savage land , untenanted and brooding , too strong to be broken by the will of men . Gavin sighed bitterly . In that inert landscape the caravan of his desires passed before his mind . He saw them ambushed , strewn in the postures of the broken and the dying . In vain his mind groped to reassemble the bones of the relationships he had sought so desperately , but they would not come to life . The silence oppressed him , made him bend low over the horse neck as if to hide from a wind that had begun to blow far away and was twisting slowly through the darkness in its slow search . They passed ranches that were framed dark gray against the black hills . Then at last the darkness began to dissolve . A bold line of violet broke loose from the high ridge of the mountains , followed by feathers of red that swept the last stars from the sky . The wan light spread over the ground and the valley revealed in the first glimmer the contours of trees and fences and palely shadowed gullies . They had been seen as soon as they left the ranch , picked out of the darkness by the weary though watchful eyes of two men posted a few hundred yards away in the windless shelter of the trees . The two men whipped their horses into town and flung themselves up the steps of the saloon , crying their intelligence . The men in Pettigrew were tired from a night drinking , their faces red and baggy . But the liquor had flushed their courage . They greeted the news angrily , as though they had been cheated of purpose . Lester heard their muttering , saw their eyes reveal their desire . He worked his tongue round and round in the hollow of his cheek and his voice came out of his throat , dry and cracked . `` He leavin . That what you wanted , isn it ? Clayton is with him , takin him out of the valley . You can -- `` Keep out of this , Purvis snarled . `` He not your brother , he Gavin son . You see , he lied to us when he said he was leavin alone . Joe Purvis was thinking back many years . First he thought of the time he had ridden to Gavin and told him how his cattle were being rustled at the far end of the valley . He remembered Gavin smirk , his own cringing feeling , his impotence . Then he thought of a time when Clayton horse had fallen lame in the Gap . His wife had said to him : `` Nellie is in love with Clayton Roy . He wouldn even dance with her at Gavin party . He treats her like she was dirt . And you stand by like a fool and let him do it He remembered Clayton mocking smile in the saloon when he had asked him what he would do if they brought their cattle to water . It was the night Clayton had tricked them in the poker game . `` You e Gavin son , Joe Purvis had said . He turned to Lester . `` You brought him back to this valley thinkin he would help you find your boy . He meant to help Gavin all the time . He made a fool of you , Lester . He swung round to the other men -- `` We can catch him easy ! There are plenty of fresh horses halfway at my place . If we let them go , they won stay away , they l find men to ride with them and they l be back . There only one way they can get out now and that through the Gap -- if we ride hard we can take them . Lester hand fluttered to Cabot shoulder . The boy jerked away . `` He killed Tom -- do you understand that ? Cabot turned back to the men and he was drunk with the thing they would do , wild to break from the cloying warmth of the saloon into the cold of the ebbing night . He fled through the door and down the steps , running , and the men grunted and followed , pushing Lester to one side where he backed against the wall with the sleeve of his jacket raised before his eyes to shut out the light . Purvis and Silas Pettigrew were the last to leave . They mounted up and rode slowly behind the others at a safe distance . Thirty-six in the cold dawn the mist swirled low to the ground , then rose with a gust of sudden wind to leave the valley clear . The clouds parted and hard gashes of sunlight swooped down to stain the earth with streaks of white and gold light so that the shadows of the running horses flowed like dark streams over the dazzling snow . When they turned in the saddle they could see the men behind them , strung out on the prairie in a flat black line . The wind of their running was cold and wild , the horses were lathered and their manes streamed like stiff black pennants in the wind . The mare began to tire and Clayton felt the spray of snow from the hoofs of Gavin stallion . He looked over his shoulder at the thin dotting of pursuers . They neither gained nor fell back . He rode low on the mare neck . Ahead of him Gavin turned slightly off the trail and pointed for the Gap , no more than a mile away . Gavin face was bloodless with excitement . He did not look back ; e could feel more than hear the staccato beat of hoofs that fanned out across the prairie to the north . He knew who was riding after him -- the men he had known all his life , the men who had worked for him , sworn their loyalty to him . Now they were riding to kill him . And he was fleeing , running -- fleeing his death and his life at the same time . The land over which he sped was the land he had created and lived in : his valley . With every leaping stride of the horse beneath him he crossed one more patch of earth that had been his , that he would never see again . The Gap looming before him -- the place where had confronted Jack English on that day so many years ago -- was his exit from all that had meaning to him . California is too far , he thought . He would never reach California . He was too old -- when he passed up and through the corridor of pines that lined the trail he could see ahead , he was passing from life . 
The sentry was not dead . He was , in fact , showing signs of reviving . He had been carrying an Enfield rifle and a holstered navy cap-and-ball pistol . A bayonet hung in a belt scabbard . He was partially uniformed in a cavalry tunic and hat . Mike stripped these from him and donned them . He and Dean tied and gagged the man , using his belt and shirt for the purpose . They dragged him inside the building . Fiske joined them , unsteady on his feet . Julia , seeing the bandage , rushed to him . `` You are hurt ! She breathed . `` I never felt better in my life , Fiske blustered . He turned to Susan and kissed her on the cheek . `` Thank you , My dear , he said . `` You are very brave . Mike silenced them . `` We l talk later . First , we e got to get out of here . `` We l grab horses , Dean said . `` The main bunch is outside , but there are some over there inside the wall . Mike debated it , trying to decide whether Fiske was strong enough to ride . But it at least offered him a chance for living . He had none here . And , for the sake of Julia and Susan , it had to be tried . The guerrilla bivouac remained silent . Light showed in the orderly room across the parade ground . Someone evidently was on duty there . No doubt there would be men guarding the horses . About a dozen animals were held inside the stockade , as best Mike could make out in the moonlight . Evidently this was a precaution so that mounts would be available in an emergency . He handed the guard rifle to Fiske . `` Dean and myself will try to cut out horses to ride , he said . `` We l stampede the rest . You stay with the ladies . All of you be ready to ride hell for leather . He added , `` If this doesn work out , the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them . He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol . Susan halted Dean and kissed him . She clung to him , talking to him , and dabbing at her eyes . Mike turned away . He was thinking that the way she had responded to his own kiss hadn meant what he had believed it had . He felt unutterably weary . Dean turned from Susan and took Julia Fortune in his arms . He kissed her also , and with deep tenderness . She too began to weep . He released her and joined Mike . `` All right , he said . Mike only said , `` Later . `` Be careful , McLish ! Susan said fiercely . `` The way you were careful ? He snorted . `` Running around in the moonlight almost naked and slugging a man with a rock ? He kept going . He wanted no more sentimental scenes with her . He might say or do something foolish . Something all of them would regret . He might tell her how sorry a spectacle she was making of herself , pretending to be blind to the way Julia Fortune had taken Dean affections from her . And using him , Mike McLish , as a sop to her pride . He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol . `` Stay well back of me , he said . `` I going to walk up to the horses , bold as brass , pretending I one of the guerrillas . There bound to be someone on guard , but the hat might fool them long enough for me to get close . Holding the pistol concealed , he walked to the rear wall of the stockade . It was pierced by a wagon gate built of two wings . One wing stood open . Mike passed through it and moved toward the dark mass of horses . They were tethered , army style , on stable lines . A voice spoke near-at-hand . `` Who that ? Just me , Mike said . `` Is that you , Bill ? He located his man . The guard stood in the shadow of the stockade wall just out of reach of the moonlight . Mike kept walking and got within arm reach before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch . Mike struck with the muzzle of the pistol . But the luck that had been running their way left him . The guard instinctively parried the blow with his rifle . He tried to veer the rifle around to fire into Mike body . Mike , off balance , managed to bat the muzzle away a moment before it exploded . The bullet went wide . Mike swung the pistol in a savage backlash . This time it connected solidly on the man temple , felling him . The explosion of the rifle had crashed against the walls of the stockade and the deep echoes were still rolling in the hills . The startled horses began rearing on their tethers . Dean came rushing up . `` Are you hit ? He demanded . `` No , but the fat in the fire ! Mike said . `` There no chance now of all of us getting away . You l have to try it alone . The sentry saddled horse stood picketed nearby , having been kept handy in case of need . Mike took the bayonet from Dean hand and slashed the picket line . `` Up you go ! He said . `` Ride ! Dean resisted Mike attempt to push him toward the horse . `` Why not you ? He protested . `` Dammit ! Mike said frantically . `` You e lighter than me . It our only chance now . Try to find these Feds . The rest of us can fort up in the house and hang on until you get back . You e the one that taking the big chance . Dean still hesitated , but Mike lifted him almost bodily into the saddle and thrust the reins in his hand . `` No telling how good this horse is , Mike panted . `` Favor him and save something in case you hit trouble . Watch out for Apaches when it comes daylight . Take the pistol . You might need it . We l still have the rifle , and I might be able to round up some more . I l stampede the rest of these horses so they can chase you . Dean leaned from the saddle and gave him a mighty whack on the back . `` McLish , he said as he kicked the horse into motion , `` I be a mighty sad man if we never met again . Then he was on his way at a gallop . Mike ran down the line , slashing picket ropes with the bayonet . He lifted a screeching war whoop . That touched off a total stampede . He darted inside the stockade and freed the horses there . These poured through the gate and joined the flight . The animals thundered away into the moonlight , heading for the ridges . The guerrillas were swarming from their bivouac at the west end of the enclosure . `` Apaches ! Mike yelled . `` They e stealin ' the stock ! He scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings . He crouched there . His shout had been taken up and repeated . The guerrillas were running across the parade ground and through the rear gate in the wake of the departing horses . All were carrying guns they had seized up , but they were half-clad or hardly clad at all . Durkin and Calhoun came running from the post . They had pistols in their hands . They bawled questions that were not answered in the uproar . They followed the others toward the east gate . Beyond the stockade rifles began to explode as some of the guerrillas fired at shadows that they imagined were Apaches . Mike made a dash to the rear of the frame buildings . He crawled beneath the two supply wagons which stood between the buildings and peered around a corner . The area was deserted . A man was standing in the open door of the lighted orderly room a few yards to Mike left , but he , too , suddenly made up his mind and went racing to join the confused activity at the east end of the stockade . Mike crawled to the door and peered in . The orderly room seemed to be deserted . A lantern hung from a peg , giving light . Ducking inside , he found that three rifles were stacked in a corner . A brace of pistols , holstered on belts , hung from a peg , along with ammunition pouches . An ammunition case stood open , containing canisters which contained powder cartridges . Mike seized a blanket from a pallet in a corner , spread it on the floor and used it to form a bag in which he placed his booty . Shouldering the load he peered from the door . His looting of the orderly room had taken only a minute or two and the vicinity was still clear of guerrillas . He looked at the looming hoods of the supply wagons , struck by a new inspiration . He set his bundle down . Snatching the lantern from its peg , he shattered its globe with a blow against a post . He picked up the powder canister and ran out . Bursting paper cartridges , he scattered powder beneath the nearest wagon and dumped the contents of the canister upon it . He shouldered the blanket again , backed off , and tossed the lantern with its open wick beneath the wagon . He turned and raced across the parade ground toward the rock house . Powder flame gushed beneath the wagon . The stockade was brilliantly lighted and the guerrillas sighted him . They realized the truth . Bullets began to snap past him . One struck the muzzle of one of the rifles that projected from the shoulder pack . Its force spun him around , but he recovered and got into stride again . A bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot when he was a stride or two from safety . Another struck him heavily in the thigh and he went down . Guerrillas were racing toward him . Susan and Julia came from the door and dragged him with them . The three of them floundered through the door into the interior and fell in a heap . Susan bounced to her feet and slammed the door . She crouched aside as bullets beat at the portal , chewing into the planks . Some tore entirely through the whipsawed post oak . The iron hinges held , but the planks were in danger of being torn from the crossbars . Mike rolled to Susan , grasped her around the knees , dragging her off her feet . He hovered over her to shield her , for spent bullets were thudding against the rear walls . He peered from a loophole . Guerrillas were only a dozen yards away , charging the house . Mike snatched a pistol from the heap of scattered booty and fired . He dropped a man with the first bullet . At the same moment Wheeler Fiske fired the rifle Mike had given him and another guerrilla was hit . That halted the rush . The guerrillas scattered for cover . The wagons were burning fiercely . The mudwagon had caught fire also . The blaze was spreading to the frame buildings . The guerrillas realized they faced a new problem . `` Gawdamighty ! One screeched . `` There goes our grub an ' ammunition ! `` Get a bucket line going ! Calhoun shouted . `` Hurry ! Hurry ! The guerrillas began a frantic search for pails in which to bring water from the spring . But what few containers they found were inadequate . Many of them , in increasing panic , came running with water in their hats in a ludicrous effort . Both buildings were in flames . The heat drove the guerrillas back . The roof of the command post began to buckle . `` Drag the wagons to the spring ! Lew Durkin yelled . `` Run m right into the spring ! Hustle ! One of the wagons erupted a massive pillar of flame . A sizable supply of powder had been touched off . The wagons and the coach were beyond saving and so were the buildings . The glow of the fire reached through the openings in the windows , giving light enough to examine Mike wound . The bullet had torn through the flesh just above the knee , inflicting an ugly gash that was forming a pool of blood on the floor . But it had missed the bone and had passed on through . Susan and Julia ripped strips from their clothing and bound the injury . Mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble around on it . 
`` So it wasn the earthquake that made him return to his village ! `` No . Now dammit , I don want to go into any more explanations . Here comes Jason . Keep this to yourself . Reverend Jason , looking worried , hurried toward us . `` Anything wrong , cap ? The men seem to think so . `` Dirion found a large war party south of us . They l probably attack at dawn , Montero said . He brushed past the clergyman and walked into the center of the camp . Using his hands as a trumpet he shouted , `` Fort up ! Fort up ! There a large war party on their way ! For a second , engages , cooks , voyageurs appeared struck dumb . Then Little Billy began shouting orders to round up the ponies and fill the water buckets and for the cooks to hurry up with the meal . They all flew into action . `` That was a terrible thing to do , I said to Oso . The Aricaras treated us like friends . And here all the time you knew the Sioux would be using our rifles on them ! God , what a world you people live in . Oso gave me an unruffled look . `` Old Knife got the largest war party ever seen on the river , he said calmly . `` What would you have done in Montero moccasins ? Let Old Knife come up and kill you and your people , or would you steer him on someone else ? He shook his head . `` Mr . Manuel did that in the war . That why the British never got the tribes to fight for the King . Mr . Manuel whispered in the ears of the Sioux that the Cheyennes were comin ' to raid m for their horses . Then he went on to the Cheyennes and told them that the Sioux was goin ' to move up . He did that with all the Nations . Hell , they were fightin ' each other so hard they had no time for anyone else . The War Department wrote Mr . Manuel a letter and said he was a hero . I saw that letter . He carried it in a little wallet made of fish skin . `` But that was war , I said . `` There no war on now . `` You e wrong , Matt . In this country there a war on every time the grass turns green . First it was the Nations against themselves , then it was them against the whites . And it goin ' to go on like this year after year until the white people take over this land . I remember being told it would happen so fast people would think it took place overnight . `` That why this company important . Once we get over the mountains others will come along . That why the Trust don want us to make it . That bastard Chambers ! -- Old Knife not the only chief he l get to do his dirty work ! Before we get through he l have the Blackfeet hankerin ' for our hair and our goods . Well , talkin ' ain goin ' to help -- let fort up ! As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso logic , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company . For , unlike the Sioux and the Crows , the Aricaras are not great horsemen , nor are they aggressive like the savage Blackfeet . More of an agricultural nation , they have relied on their warriors only for defense and for survival in the endless wars of the plains . Still , I was disgusted with myself for agreeing with Montero methods . Surprisingly , he had told the others what he had done . In the brief moment I had to talk to them before I took my post on the ring of defenses , I indicated I was sickened by the methods men employed to live and trade on the river . `` I think Montero did right , Amy said firmly . `` Let the savages kill each other . What do we care ? Reverend Jason was understandably bitter . `` It was a terrible thing to do . Those little children . But Oso replied calmly , `` Trouble ain easy to dodge out in this country , rev end . 28 . Attack Gray Eyes attacked our camp just as the first pink threads stitched together the hills and the sky . Our camp was in the center of a wide valley . Montero had set up a strong position , using every bale and box we had in addition to barricades of logs and brush . He had ordered the ponies brought inside the fortified circle and had assigned Pierre and a band of picked engages the job of trying to keep them steady under fire . The pony herd was the one flaw in our defense ; he Rees undoubtedly would try to cut down as many of the animals as possible . Wildly bucking horses would make the position difficult to defend against charging warriors . The cooks had prepared one of the best meals we had in a long time , and on Montero orders had baked enough bread to last the day . Buckets were filled , the herd fed and watered . The worst part had been the waiting ; lthough we didn expect the attack before dawn , the long cloudy night , filled with the sounds of the industrious insects , seemed endless . Coyotes and hunting wolves sounded like signaling Indian scouts , the whinny of a restless pony made one skin crawl . Oso slept unconcernedly , his rifle cradled in his arms ; didn catch a wink . Every time I closed my eyes , I saw Gray Eyes rushing at me with a knife . It was a relief when they finally came . They poured through the opening in the valley , then spread out in a long line to come at us , brandishing their lances and filling the morning with their spine-chilling scalp cry . `` Oso , Montero called `` I l get Gray Eyes . `` That l be a pleasure to see , the big black murmured as he stared down the barrel of his rifle . `` Hold your fire , Montero was shouting . `` Wait until my shot . I l shoot the first man who doesn . I could see them in my sights . They were about a mile off ; nder me the ground quivered slightly . At first they were only feathers and dark indistinguishable faces and bodies , hunched over their horses ' heads . Gradually they emerged as men . Gray Eyes was in the lead . His face was split by a vermilion streak , his eyes were pools of white ; agged red and black medicine symbols covered his chest . He was naked except for a clout . Next to him was a young boy I was sure had sat near me at one of the trading sessions . His mouth was open , his neck corded with the strain of his screams . I found his chest in my sights . It had a red circle . The circle came nearer and nearer . My God , how long is he going to wait , I thought . Montero rifle cracked . At first I thought he had missed . Gray Eyes remained erect . The feathered lance was still above his head . As he started to slump over , another warrior swung him onto his horse . I squeezed the trigger . At the last second I dropped my sights from the bare chest and bright red circle to the chest of his pony . I saw the pony fall like a stone and the young warrior flew over its head , bouncing like a rubber ball . He started to run but Oso shot caught him on the wing . He jerked once in the grass and lay still . `` If you e goin ' to kill m -- ! Kill m ! Oso growled . What else he said was lost in the rattle of gunfire on all sides . The Aricaras broke under the devastating fire , wheeled and retreated . `` Lead up ! Lead up ! They l be back ! Montero was shouting . Far up the valley I could see the Rees circling and reorganizing . Out in front of our walls the grass was covered with dead and dying men , war shields , lances , blankets and wounded and dead horses . The morning air was filled with the sweetish odor of new-spilled blood , the acrid stench of frightened horses , and the bitterness of burned powder . A horse screamed as it twisted from side to side in a frenzy . A rifle cracked ; he square head fell over . One of the warriors suddenly leaped to his feet and began running across the valley to the trees that lined the small creek . His legs pumped furiously , his long black hair streamed out behind him . There was a ragged volley . He was dead before he hit the ground . `` For Christ sake , don waste your powder on one of m ! Montero shouted furiously . `` Wait for the charge ! The charge , I tell you ! The sharp cries at the end of the valley were faint . They grew louder as the Indians charged again . I could see their faces glistening with sweat and bear grease , their mouths open , shouting their spine-chilling cries . `` Gray Eyes is back , , Montero said . The war captain had been badly wounded and was fighting to hold his seat . I could see the blood running down his chest . He was riding between two warriors , who held him erect when he started to slump . I forgot to aim . In my sights I watched him looming bigger and bigger . Montero shot had caught him high in the chest ; here was no doubt he was dying . Again we waited for Montero . This time he delayed so long that some of the engages shouted frantically , but they held their fire . The horses were only several lengths away when he fired . The bullet flung Gray Eyes from his horse . Our rolling volley swept most of the other riders from their mounts . But a few reached our wall . I heard the whir of an ax and a Canadian face burst apart in a bloody spray . I saw Little Billy rise and fire almost point blank and an Indian face became shattered flesh and bone . A second leaped from his horse to the top of the bale , firing four arrows in such rapid succession it didn seem possible they were in flight . Men screamed . Oso reached up , jerked the buck from the bale and snapped his neck . Other Indians were running at the ponies , shrilling and waving blankets . Reverend Jason got one , the Canadians the others . I saw the clergyman kneel for a moment by the twitching body of the man he had shot , then run back to his position . The ponies were almost uncontrollable . The pall of dust they raised made it difficult to see when the Aricaras charged again . This time more of them hurdled the barrier . A small Indian dived at Montero , who caught him with a swift upward stroke of his rifle butt . It sounded like a man kicking a melon . Above me a dark rider was whipping his pony with a quirt in an attempt to hurdle the bales . Although my shot killed his horse , he rolled off the bale on top of me . I could smell woodsmoke , grease , and oil . His eyes were dark , fluid , fearful , and he gave a sigh as my knife went in . Coming over the wall he had seemed like a hideous devil . Now under me I could see him for what he really was , a boy dressed up in streaks of paint . The Aricaras made one last desperate charge . It was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors , old and young , wheeling and twisting their ponies frantically from side to side only to be tumbled bleeding from their saddles by the relentless slam , slam of the cruelly efficient Hawkinses . Others , badly wounded , gripped hands in manes , knees in bellies , held on as long as possible and then , weak from ghastly wounds , slipped sideways , slowly , almost thoughtfully , to be broken under the slashing hoofs . Some gracefully soared from the backs of their wounded , screaming mounts to make one last defiant charge before the lead split their hearts or tore their guts . None of them reached our walls again . The few survivors grudgingly turned away . In the distance we could hear the drums and the wail of the death song . 
She was carrying a quirt , and she started to raise it , then let it fall again and dangle from her wrist . `` I saw your fire , she said , speaking slowly , making an effort to control her anger . `` You could burn down this whole mountainside with a fire that size . It wouldn matter to a fool like you . It would to me . `` All right , Wilson said quickly . `` The fire too big . And I appreciate the advice . He was losing patience again . An hour before , with the children asleep and nothing but the strange darkness , he would have appreciated company . She had helped him change his mind . `` I not advising you , she said . `` I telling you . That fire too big . Let it burn down . And make sure it out when you leave in the morning . He was taken aback . It took him a long time to compose himself . `` There some mistake , he said finally . `` You e right about the fire . It bigger than it has to be , though I don see where it doing any harm . But you e wrong about the rest of it . I not leaving in the morning . Why should I ? I own the place . She showed her surprise by tightening the reins and moving the gelding around so that she could get a better look at his face . It didn seem to tell her anything . She glanced around the clearing , taking in the wagon and the load of supplies and trappings scattered over the ground , the two kids , the whiteface bull that was chewing its cud just within the far reaches of the firelight . She studied it for a long time . Then she turned back to Wilson and smiled , and he wasn quite sure what she meant by it . `` You own this place ? She said , and her tone had softened until it was almost friendly . `` You bought it ? `` From a man in St . Louis , Wilson said . `` Jake Carwood . Maybe you know him . The girl laughed . `` I know him . I ought to . My father ran him off here six years ago . Wilson didn say anything . He stood watching the girl , wondering what was coming next . She had picked up the quirt and was twirling it around her wrist and smiling at him . `` Carwood didn tell you that , she said . `` No , Wilson said . `` But it understandable . It not the kind of thing that a man would be proud of . And it doesn make any difference . He sold me a clear title . I have it with me , right here . If you want to see -- `` Never mind , she said sternly . `` It wouldn matter to my father , and not to me . I meant what I said about that fire . Be sure it out when you leave . That all . I l let you go back to doing the dishes now . It was meant to insult him , and didn quite succeed . He took the reins just below the bit and held them firmly , and it was his turn to smile now . `` I don mind washing dishes now and then , he said pleasantly . `` It doesn hurt . It might hurt you , though . Somebody might mistake you for a woman . He meant to say more , but he never got the chance . She was quick . She brought the quirt down , slashing it across his cheek , and he tried to step back . She swung the quirt again , and this time he caught her wrist and pulled her out of the saddle . She came down against him , and he tried to break her fall . He grabbed her by the shoulders and went down on one knee , taking her weight so that some of the wind was driven out of him . It made him a little sick , and he let go of her . He got up slowly , and she was already on her feet , and he stood facing her . He wiped the blood from his cheek . `` I ought to -- he said . He was shaking with anger , his breath coming in long , painful gasps . `` That quirt -- I ought to use it on you , where it would do the most good . If you were a man -- `` She isn , mister . The voice came from behind him , and Wilson turned . The fire had gone down , and the man was only a shadow against the trees . But a moment later he brought his horse forward into the light , and Wilson had a good look at him . He was tall and dark-skinned , a half-breed , Wilson thought . And he was handsome , despite the long thin scar that slanted across his cheek . `` She not a man , mister , he said . `` I am . If you e got any ideas . He raised the Winchester and pointed it at Wilson chest . `` Put the rifle down , Joseph , the girl said . She seemed irritated . `` I thought I told you to stay home . The half-breed eased the Winchester down and rested it across his lap . The scar looked pure white in the half-darkness ; is eyes were black and deep-set , and expressionless . `` You shouldn be riding up here after dark , Judith , he said quietly . `` I can take care of this . It no job for you . The girl tapped the quirt impatiently against her knee and glared at him . He took it without flinching . `` I said go home , Joseph . You e got no business up here . The half-breed didn answer this time . But the scar seemed to pull hard at the corner of his mouth , and his eyes were hurt and angry . It made Wilson wonder . He watched the half-breed as he turned silently . They could hear the pony feet on the dry leaves for a while , then the sound faded out . Wilson brushed the dust from his coat . `` Who was that ? He asked . `` Your personal guard ? You e pretty hard on him . `` He works for my father , the girl said , and then seemed to change her mind . `` He a friend . His name Joseph Sanchez . Is there anything else you want to know ? `` Not now , Wilson said . `` I guess I l find out soon enough . You e got blood on your cheek . Not yours . Mine . It must have got there when you fell against me . She wiped it off with the sleeve of her coat . `` I l bet that as close as you e been to a man since you were a baby , Wilson said . He saw her hand start to work down the leather thong toward the handle of the quirt , and he grabbed her wrist . `` Oh , no , he said , and he was without humor now . `` I e had enough of that . I e had enough of you . I don know what goes on around here , and I don care . I don know what makes you think you can get away with this kind of business , and I don care about that , either . You took me by surprise . But I l know how to handle you next time . She brought up her free hand to hit him , but this time he was quicker . He side-stepped her blow and she fell , stumbling against the gelding . She finally regained her balance and got up in the saddle . Her hat had come off and fallen behind her shoulders , held by the string , and he could see her face more clearly than he had at any time before . He had forgotten that she was so pretty . But her prettiness was what he had noticed first , and all the other things had come afterward : cruelty , meanness , self-will . He had known women like that , one woman in particular . And one had been too many . He watched the girl until she had gone into the trees , and waited until he couldn hear the sound of her horse any longer , then went up to where the children were sleeping . They weren sleeping , of course , but they thought they were doing him a favor by pretending . He hadn shown up too well in their eyes , letting himself be browbeaten by a woman . They expected greater things from him , regardless of how trying the circumstances , and they were disappointed . And determined not to show it . They lay a little too stiffly , with their eyes straining to stay closed . `` Go to sleep , he said . `` Both of you . There better things to do than listen to something like that . I l be down at the creek finishing the dishes , if you want me . He found the pan where he had dropped it and carried it back down to the stream . The coyote was calling again , and he hoped that this time there would be no other sounds to interrupt it . Not tonight , at any rate . He had a feeling that the girl meant trouble . If she did , he could stand it better in the light . He scrubbed absent-mindedly at the pans and reflected on how things had turned out . That afternoon when they had pulled up in front of the broken-down ranch house , his hopes had been high . Already some of the pain had gone from Amelia death . Not all of it . There would still be plenty of moments of regret and sadness and guilty relief . But they were starting a new life . And they had almost everything they needed : land , a house , two whiteface bulls , three horses . The land wasn all Wilson had expected of it . Six hundred and forty acres , the old man back in St . Louis had said ; ood grass , good water . Well , the grass was there , though in some places the ground was too steep for a cow to get to it . The water was there , so much of it that it spread all through the dead orchard . And there was a house ; ivable perhaps , but badly in need of repairs . In the last analysis , though , Wilson had little cause to complain . The place had been cheap -- just the little he had left after Amelia burial -- and it would serve its purpose . There was only one place where Jake Carwood description had gone badly awry : the peace and quiet . It hadn started out that way . And he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things would get worse before they got better . 2 They had the house cleaned up by noon , and Wilson sent the boy out to the meadow to bring in the horses . He stood on the porch and watched him struggling with the heavy harness , and finally went over to help him . Kathy was already in the wagon . They were going to town , and they were both excited . Wilson backed the team into the traces , and wished they weren going to town at all . He had an uneasy feeling about it . That girl last night , what was her name ? Judith Pierce . It was the only thing about her that was the least bit hard to remember . He finished with the team and filled his pipe and stood looking about him . He had spent two hours riding around the ranch that morning , and in broad daylight it was even less inviting than Judith Pierce had made it seem . There was brush , and stands of pine that no grass could grow under , and places so steep that cattle wouldn stop to graze . But there was water . There was an artificial lake just out of sight in the first stand of trees , fed by a half dozen springs that popped out of the ground above the hillside orchard . Yes , there was plenty of water , too much , and that was probably the trouble . There were tracks of cattle all over his six hundred and forty acres . The first part of the road was steep , but it leveled off after the second bend and curled gradually into the valley . It was hotter once they reached the flat , and drier , but the grass was better . A warm breeze played across it , moving it like waves . A red-tailed hawk flew in behind them and stayed there , watching for any snakes or rabbits that they might stir up from the side of the road . It took them an hour before they came to the first houses of Kelseyville . The town was about what Wilson expected : one main street with its rows of false-fronted buildings , a water tower , a few warehouses , a single hotel ; ll dusty and sunbaked . The place was quiet . 
Such was my state of mind that I did not question the possibility of this ; nder the circumstances I was only too willing to confess all . I was nearly thirty at the time . I went to the hall in the afternoons only , on these preliminary matters . It was dark and , I sensed , very large ; nly the counter at one end was lighted by a long fluorescent tube suspended directly above it . Sometimes I was aware of people moving about in the darkness . I would turn away from my writing in the hope of getting a good look at them but I never quite succeeded . A glimpse of three of four vague figures , at the most . Drifting here and there . Squatting , as if waiting . The pulsing glow of a cigarette . Since they could see me but I not them , their presence in the hall disturbed me . The clerk paid them no attention . This impressed me , until I realized how limited was his sphere of influence . His job simply consisted in registering new men . When the phone rang he answered it . His authority extended to the far edge of the counter , no further . None of the men hanging around the hall bothered to speak to him . Baldness was attacking his pate . He spoke to me in a gruff voice , an affectation which quite belied his personality . He wore his white shirt open at the neck , revealing a bit of scrawny pale chest underneath . It was obvious that he wished himself different from the sort of person he thought he was . But it was not easy for him and he often slipped . When one of the men in the hall behind us spat on the floor and scraped his boot over the gob of spittle I noticed how the clerk winced . I felt certain he was really a spineless little man . His hat ( the cause of his baldness ? ) hung on a hook on the wall , and underneath it I could see his tie , knotted , ready to be slipped over his head , a black badge of frayed respectability that ought never to have left his neck . The morning tabloids were on the counter , and a stack of dog-eared men magazines . On a shelf in the office behind the counter was a small radio dialed permanently on a station which broadcast only vulgar commercials and cheap popular music . Everything about the clerk was trivial . Once , pressing him , I learned that his job was only part-time , in the afternoons when nothing went on in the hall . Noticing my disappointment he attempted to salvage what scraps and shreds of authority he felt might still be clinging to his person . With distaste I saw him assume a pompous air . When he saw me coming he turned his radio off . He made a show of rearranging my forms on the shelf . He would pick up the ringing phone with studied negligence , then bark into it with gruff importance . What limited knowledge he possessed he forced upon me . In the mornings , I was informed , fluorescent tubes , similar to the one above the counter , illuminated the entire hall . They , and the two large fans which I could dimly see as daylight filtered through their vents , down at the far end of the hall , could be turned on by a master switch situated inside the office . He pointed out the switch to me and for a moment I foolishly believed that he would let deed follow words . I was shown , instead , a batch of white tickets of the sort handed out , he told me , every morning . Now , here was something of obvious importance to me , yet when I reached for the tickets he snatched them away from my hand . He couldn afford to have anyone mess around with them , he said . Each of those tickets was of great value to its rightful recipient . I withdrew my hand . Later I would remember what this pompous little man had told me about the worth of a ticket . Having nothing else to do except wait for my forms to be processed , I gave myself over to speculations concerning the hall itself . When suitably lighted , what would it look like ? The presence of the two exhaust fans seemed to indicate that the hall could become crowded for air . One afternoon , upon receiving permission and the necessary instructions from the clerk , I had visited the toilet adjoining the hall . By counting the number of stalls and urinals I attempted to form a loose estimate of how many men the hall would hold at one time . For although I had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet I still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended . I could observe the two fans down at the end , but their size in themselves meant nothing to me as long as I had no measure of comparison . I had for some time been hoping , in vain , for one of the dim figures to pass between the fan vents and myself . I knew that three or four of them were almost always present in the hall , but what they were doing , and exactly where , I could not tell . It was , I felt , possible that they were men who , having received no tickets for that day , had remained in the hall , to sleep perhaps , in the corners farthest removed from the counter with its overhead light . This light did not penetrate very far back into the hall , and my eyes were hindered rather than aided by the dim daylight entering through the fan vents when I tried to pick out whatever might be lying , or squatting , on the floor below . Also the clerk appeared to disapprove of my frequent curious glances back over my shoulder . No sooner would I turn my head away from the counter before he would address me , at times quite sharply , in order to bring back my attention . And I had hardly finished my business in the toilet on the aforementioned occasion when the lights in that place , like the hall lights controlled from the switch in the office , flicked off and on impatiently . This sort of petty vigilance annoyed me . I felt certain it was self-appointed . It sprang from a type of mentality I encountered often enough but certainly had not expected to find here . I decided to see no more of the clerk until the processing of my papers was completed . I felt strongly attached to the hall , however , and hardly a day passed when I did not go to look at it from a distance . I lived in a state of suspense because of it . I could not cling to my past nor did I wish to . I had signed it off on the forms . My future lay solely with the hall , yet what did I know about the hall at this point ? Although I had been inside it I had not yet seen it functioning . I wished to prepare myself but did not even know what sort of clothes I ought to be wearing . I did not despair , however ; ar from it ! I was constantly searching for clues around the neighborhood of the hall . Though only a relatively short walk separated it from my own part of town , its character was wholly foreign to me . Large warehouses flanked the street on which the hall fronted . The river was only a few blocks away but an unbroken line of piers prevented me from seeing it . Sometimes I noticed the tops of ships ' masts and funnels reaching above the pier roofs . The sounds issuing from beyond -- winches whirring , men shouting -- indicated great activity and excited me . The hall , on the other hand , appeared lifeless and deserted on these long waterfront afternoons . It resembled nothing I ever seen before . Its front was windowless , but irregularities in the masonry might be an indication that windows , now blinded , had once looked out upon the street . I kept circling the block hoping to see , from the street behind it , the rear of the hall . But it was not a tall structure and other buildings concealed it . For weeks I wandered about this neighborhood of warehouses and garages , truck terminals and taxi repair shops , gasoline pumps and longshoremen lunch counters , yet never did I cease to feel myself a stranger there . I returned to the hall , despite my dislike for the clerk . As I had expected , he insisted that my visits to the hall would do nothing to further the process of my application . Meanwhile spring had passed well into summer . At last , when I put it to him directly , the clerk was forced to admit that the delay in my case was unusual . When I asked him what , if anything , I could do about it , he surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall . I could consult this personage on any weekday morning , though not before ten o lock . The clerk impressed this upon me : that I should not arrive in the hall before ten o lock . When I went for my interview with the director I saw why . Although it was dark as usual I could see that the hall had only recently contained a great many people . Cigarette butts littered the floor . The big fans were going , drawing from the large room the remnants of stale smoke which drifted about in pale strata underneath the ceiling . I had felt the draft they were making while mounting the stairs . The staircase itself seemed still to be echoing the heavy footfalls of many men . I stopped by the counter . No one was behind it , but in the rear wall of the office I noticed , for the first time , a door which had been left partially open . Past it I could see part part of a desk , a flag in a corner , a rug on the floor . The director office . I rapped my knuckles on the counter . The director came to the door . I was at once disappointed , although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have explained . He was a man in his late forties , with graying hair , of medium height ; e looked dapper in a lightweight summer suit , brown silk tie and green-tinted soft collar . He wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; hey somehow made me expect to see him launch into a vaudeville tapdance routine any moment . But he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered me a seat inside his office , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application . I had the impression that he had read my forms , perhaps several times . He did not look at them now . As he lowered himself on the chair behind his desk I wondered what this dapper , slightly ridiculous man could possibly have to do with the workings of the hall . He spoke , in a voice as immaculate as his appearance . Why had I registered ? Begging my pardon , he must express his astonishment over seeing a person of my background applying at the hall . He had looked over my forms and was impressed by what he had seen there ; ndeed , my scholastic qualifications were such that he , a college graduate himself , must envy me them . Was I sure , he asked , that I knew what I was applying for ? What sort of men I would come into contact with , at the hall ? These questions did not surprise me ; felt certain that the director , like the afternoon clerk , seldom moved beyond the counter , that the hall , to them , was a jungle , a dark and unwelcome place . Though I doubted that he would understand me , I told the director my motives for applying . I had always , I said , hankered after working hard with my hands . This desire , I went on , growing voluble as my conviction was aroused , had mounted at such a rate recently that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing . To this effect I had already severed all connections which bound me to my former existence . 
The flat , hard cap was small , but he thrust it to the back of his head . `` Tie him up . `` Hell with it . Before they could guess his intention Rankin stepped forward and swung the guard own gun against the uncovered head , hard . The man went over without sound , falling to the bare floor . Barton said harshly , `` Why did you do that ? Rankin sneered at him . `` What did you want me to do , kiss him ? He dumped me in solitary twice . Barton caught the lighter man shoulder and swung him around . `` Let get one thing straight , you and me . The only reason we brought you was to get Miller out . If you ever try anything without my orders I l kill you . Fred Rankin looked at him . It seemed to Barton that the green eyes mocked him , the thin-lipped smile held insolence , but he had no time to waste now . `` Come on . Let move . They filed out through the guard-room door , into the paved square . There were three other men within this prison whom Barton would have liked to liberate , but they were in other cell blocks . There was no chance . They moved slowly , toward the main gate , following the wall . There was no moon . They had chosen this night purposely . They reached the guard house without alerting the men on the walls above , and Powers slipped through the door . Two men were on duty inside , playing pinochle , relaxed . They looked up in surprise as Powers came in . `` What are you doing out of the block ? `` It Curtiss , he said , naming the man Rankin had hit . `` I e got to have help . They stared at him . The sergeant in charge climbed to his feet . `` What wrong with him ? `` He having some kind of a fit . The sergeant turned to the door . As he passed through it Barton shoved his gun against the man side . `` One sound and you e dead . The sergeant froze . Powers had not followed . Powers was covering the remaining guard . The man half-reached for the cord of the alarm bell . Powers knocked his arm aside . Deliberately , with none of Rankin viciousness , he laid the barrel of his gun alongside the guard head . They were free . Even Barton could not quite believe it . It had gone without a hitch . They slid through the wicket in the big gate , ghosted across the dark ground . Five minutes later they reached the horses . Barton was relieved to see that Carl Dill and Emmett Foster had brought extra mounts . He had been worried that with Miller and Rankin added to the escape party they would be short . No one hurried . They walked the horses , heading along the river , Barton and Emmett Foster in the lead , seven men riding quietly through the night . The only thing which would have attracted attention was that two wore the uniform of prison guards , three the striped suits of convicts . Five miles . In a small grove against the river they halted , turning deep into the protection of the trees . Foster had brought extra clothing also . A good man , Emmett . He had been one of the original Night Riders , one who had escaped the trial . It was to him that Barton had sent Carl Dill on Dill release from the prison . Clyde Miller was crying softly to himself , shedding his striped suit and fumbling into the nondescript butternut pants , the worn brown shirt . Kid Boyd was unusually silent , Rankin watchful , a few paces apart . Barton finished his dressing and extended his hand to Powers . `` I won even try to thank you . The ex-prison guard was embarrassed . He said in a studied voice , `` I didn do it for you . I did it for the valley . You e the only man the Night Riders will follow . We e been starving and I don like to starve . Barton turned away , his eyes falling upon Rankin beside his horse . `` Good luck . The murderer lifted his head . `` Meaning you want me to ride out ? `` You aren one of us . There nothing for you here . `` I got no place to go . Barton hesitated . He did not trust Rankin , his violent temper , his killer instinct . But ten years in prison had taught him realities . They were in a fight , outweighed in both numbers and money . It was all right to put a bunch of ranchers onto horses , to call them Night Riders , to set out to attack the largest mining combination the country had ever seen if all they wanted was adventure . But if they really hoped to succeed they needed professionals , men who knew how to use a gun against men , who would match the killers on the other side . `` Your choice , he said briefly , and turned to Kid Boyd . `` Bury those uniforms so they won be found . Then Barton touched Carl Dill arm and moved off , up the river bank . He wanted a careful , uninterrupted report from Dill on the conditions in the valley . They squatted on their heels in the deep mud and Dill found a cigar in his breast pocket , passing it over silently . He too knew the agony of going for weeks , sometimes months without the solace of tobacco . Mitchell Barton drew in the fragrance deeply , letting the smoke lie warm and soothing in his throat for a moment before he exhaled . Through the gloom he could not see the man beside him clearly but he knew him thoroughly . For his first five years in prison , they had shared a cell . Carl Dill was neither a rancher nor a valley man . He had been the auditor for the mining syndicate , and he had stolen fifty thousand dollars of the syndicate money . He had done time for the theft . The one thing they had in common was their hatred . Both hated Donald Kruger . It had drawn them together , and since his release from prison Dill had worked tirelessly to effect this night escape . He said now , `` I e got the perfect headquarters set up . The old Haskell mine . Mitch Barton knew the place . Twenty years before a group of Easterners had bought out the Haskell claims in the rocky hills south of Grass Valley . They had spent a million dollars , carving in a road , putting up buildings , drilling their haulage tunnel . Then the vein had petered out and the whole project had been abandoned . `` The road washed badly , said Dill , `` but there a trail you can get over with a horse . A company of cavalry couldn come in there if two men were guarding that trail . Barton nodded . `` How do the valley people feel ? `` As mad as ever . But Kruger men keep them off balance , and they don trust me . I an outsider . When they learn you e in the hills though , they l rally , don worry about that . Barton waited for a long moment , then asked the question which lay always uppermost in his mind . `` My boy . Did you find him ? Dill was silent as if he hated to answer , and Barton had a cold , sick feeling of apprehension . `` He in Morgan Ferry . Barton half-straightened in surprise . `` What he doing there ? Again Dill hesitated . `` Dealing faro . `` Dealing faro ? How come ? `` Your sister-in-law has the faro bank in Cap Ayres ' saloon . Barton cursed under his breath . After another long pause he asked , `` How many people know who they are ? `` Everyone . Your cousin Finley saw to that . He quite a rat , you know . He sold out to Kruger men . He informed them of everything you e ever written him . He wants your ranch . Barton stood up . He said tensely , `` All right . Let go get the boy . Dill had come up also . `` I was afraid of this . I almost didn tell you . `` If you hadn I have killed you . Dill voice tightened . `` But you can ride into the Ferry . That what they l expect you to do . They l be there waiting for you . I understand how you feel about the child . `` The hell you do . Barton voice was rougher than Dill had ever heard it . `` I never saw him . My wife died in childbirth after I was sent away . `` I can leave him there . Donald Kruger would like nothing better than to hold him as hostage , and I wouldn entrust a snake to his tender care . I e got to get the boy . Let ride . Chapter two Barton men cut the telegraph wires in half a dozen places , carrying away whole sections to make repairs more difficult . It was over an hour before their escape was discovered , but still the news that Barton was free flashed across the central portion of the state . It reached Donald Kruger in his massive home in Burlingame . It reached the mines at North San Juan and Bloomfield . It brought men out of bed and sent them into hurried conferences . For everyone involved knew that the whole valley was a powder keg , and Mitchell Barton the fuse which could send it into explosive violence . Creighton Hague sat in his office above the Ione pit . The office was of logs , four rooms , each heated by an iron stove . The building was dwarfed by the scene outside . There a dozen giant monitors played their seventy-five-foot jets of water against the huge seam of tertiary gravel which was the mountainside . The gravel was the bed of an ancient river , buckled in some prehistoric upheaval of earth . It was partially cemented by ages and pressure , yet it crumpled before the onslaught of the powerful streams , the force of a thousand fire hoses , and with the gold it held washed down through the long sluices . A million dollars ' of gold a month . A million tons of rock and soil and brush . The monitors ran twenty-four hours each day . Their roar , like the swelling volume of a hundred tornadoes could be heard for miles . Hague , like all who worked near the pits , was partly deafened from the constant assault against his eardrums . He was a big man , wearing a neat flannel shirt against the cold foothill air . Fat showed in loose rolls beneath the shirt . Ten years older than Mitch Barton , he had clawed his way up from mucker in the pits to manager of the operation . He was proud of his accomplishments , proud of his job , proud that Donald Kruger and his associates trusted him . He lived and breathed for the mining company . No man could have reached his spot nor held it without being ruthless , and Hague had made a virtue of ruthlessness all of his life . There came a ghost of noise at the office door and Hague swung to see Kodyke in the entrance from the outer room . Hague had never accustomed himself to Kodyke . The man was tall , thin , with a narrow face and a too-large nose . The eyes always held Hague , eyes of a dead man , lidless as a lizard , with the fixed intensity of a cobra . Even Hague was repelled by the machinelike deadliness that was Kodyke . He knew nothing about the man history . Kodyke had appeared at the mine one day bearing a letter from Kruger . Kodyke was to head the dread company police . He ran the change rooms . He threw out the hi-graders . He supervised the cleanups and handled the shipments of raw gold which each week went out to San Francisco . Hague squeezed down his uneasy dislike . He pulled open the top drawer of his desk and drew out a tintype . `` This is Mitchell Barton . He broke out of Folsom last night . Apparently he bribed one of the guards . We want him back there or we want him dead . Kodyke took the picture in a lean hand , studying it thoughtfully . `` Dangerous ? `` Dangerous , yes . You know how the ranchers in the valley are . They blame us for all their troubles . Ten years ago they blew up some of our ditches . It cost us a hundred thousand dollars and thirty days lost time to fix them . We don want Barton Night Riders loose again . The gunman nodded , slipping the picture into his breast pocket , saying nothing . Normally Hague wasted no words , but now he found himself unable to stop their flow although he knew Kodyke was aware of all he said . 
If she sensed any unusual preoccupation on the part of her mother , she did not comment upon it . After they had finished eating , Melissa took Sprite the kitten under her arm -- `` so that Auntie Grace can teach it about the whistle -- and climbed into the station wagon beside her mother . She had offered to walk , but Pamela knew she would not feel comfortable about her child until she had personally confided her to the care of the little pink woman who chose to be called `` Auntie . When they reached their neighbor house , Pamela said a few polite words to Grace and kissed Melissa lightly on the forehead , the impulse prompted by a stray thought -- of the type to which she was frequently subject these days -- that they might never see one another again . Then she turned the station wagon around and headed it back down the hill , with the village as her ostensible destination . As she drove , she thought about her plan . It was really quite simple . So simple , in fact , that it might even work -- although Pamela , now , in her new frame of mind , was careful not to pretend too much assurance . That mistake , she thought , had cost her dearly these past few days , and she wanted to avoid falling into any more of the traps that the mountain might set for her . She must be cautious so as not to alert the scheming forest . When the station wagon drew abreast of the dusty dirt road that led up to the porch of the Culver house , Pamela turned the wheel , guiding the car to its familiar parking spot close to the house , and stopped . All of her movements were careful and methodical , partaking of the stealth of a criminal who has plotted his felony for months in advance and knows exactly which step to take next in the course of the final execution of his crime . She locked the ignition , removed the keys , stepped out of the car and went into the house . Here , she dropped the keys on a small table beside the door and went upstairs to her bedroom . On her bureau lay a small , brass ornament of simple design and faded engraving -- an object which , Pamela believed now , had been the property of her great-grandfather , Major Hiram Munroe Culver . He had belonged to this land and , perhaps , had desecrated it -- and this was the only material symbol that remained of him . If she , Pamela , were being held responsible for his crimes , then hers must be the final act of expiation . She would return this symbol to the mountain , as one pours seed back into the soil every Spring or as ancient fertility cults demand annual human sacrifice . Slowly and thoughtfully , she slipped the ornament into the pocket of her slacks , moved down the stairs and out of the house . There was only one place where the mountain might receive her -- that unnamed , unnameable pool harbored in its secret bosom . Atonement , if atonement were possible , could only be made at that sacred , sacrificial basin . It was there that she would have to enact her renunciation , beg forgiveness . Perhaps it was insane , Pamela thought . Perhaps it was all a vividly conceived dream . But she was caught in it , and she faced the terrible possibility that , if it were a dream , it was one from which she might never awaken . Facing the forest now , she who had not dared to enter it before , walked between two trees at random and headed in what she believed was the direction of the pool . She remembered little of her previous journey there with Grace , and she could but hope that her dedication to her mission would enable her to accomplish it . The forest was open and freely welcoming , extending an enchanted hand . The ground was covered with soft pine needles and the slope was gentle . Birds chirped and chattered in the trees and the sun , all dewy-eyed and soft , caressed her shoulders warmly from time to time . It was not , thought Pamela , such an evil place after all . No wonder Melissa responded so completely to its beckoning . Perhaps she had no reason to fear these trees that whispered their secrets above her head as she passed . Was it not possible , after all , that the forest was in league with her and her child that its sympathy lay with the Culvers that she had erred in failing to understand this ? Pamela felt calm and peaceful as she walked along . The slight flutter that had disturbed the motion of her heart when she entered the forest was gone now , and even the dim groves of trees through which she occasionally passed did not reawaken her fear . She regarded them as signs that she was nearing the glen she sought , and she was glad to at last be doing something positive in her unenunciated , undefined struggle with the mountain and its darkling inhabitants . Having persisted too long in deliberate ignorance and denial of the forces that threatened her , Pamela was relieved now to admit their potency and to be taking definite steps toward grappling with them . A few days ago , she would have thought such an expedition as this utterly ridiculous ; oday , on the contrary , it seemed utterly reasonable . She did not pause to consider what she would do if her plan should fail ; he directed all of her mental and physical energy toward achieving this one goal . If , as she walked , her steps fumbled from time to time , she chose to ignore that omen . If the slope grew steeper and the groves more dim , she tried not to heed . Success depended upon maintaining her equanimity ; he must be poised and proud and unafraid in order to prove to the mountain that she was in earnest . The forest took on an impersonal aspect . It did not care what sort of person prowled its woods , plucked at its bark or stripped the berries from its bushes . Unconcerned , indifferent , unmotivated , the forest was simply there -- fighting man depredations with more abundant growth and man follies with its own musical evening laughter . Red man or white man , pacifist or killer , the forest would accept them all -- knowing that it could thrive equally well on slaughter and beneficence ; nowing that its ageless mass would always dwarf the short span of time allotted to any man . Pamela shook her head . She must not think about time . That was another one of those traps . In her grim pursuit of tranquillity , Pamela focused her thoughts on her husband . If , when this was all over , she found the words to tell him about it , she wondered if he would ever understand . How could he comprehend her need when he himself was innocent ? Indian ghosts would not impinge upon his nights , nor would his days be haunted by the dimly-outlined , ill-conceived figure of her benighted ancestor . His bright , daylight mind would whistle away such images ; hey would not dare to face his scoffing . Pamela was glad Jim was nowhere near . His presence would have interfered with her duty . The mountainside grew steeper and she slipped once or twice on the smooth pine needles . The trees huddled more closely together , their limbs and leaves intertwined in a coarse curtain against the sun . Bushes and vines abetted the rocks in forming thorny detours for the struggling stranger , and without the direct light of the sun to act as compass , Pamela could no longer be positive of her direction . Nevertheless , she continued to move upward . She was sure she would reach the pool by climbing , and she clung to that belief despite the increasing number of obstacles . The forest had become an alien world where she strove , alone , unprotected , unguided , to deal with whatever hindrances were offered . It was a bold , dark castle of pine boughs that stood like a medieval fortress , eclipsing the sun and human time . At one and the same time , she was within it but still searching for the drawbridge that would give her entry . Silence came into the forest -- a solid being that clapped its hand over the murmuring mouths of the birds and the whispered comfort of the trees . Silence walked at Pamela side , its presence numbingly close , yet too far for her to hear . Silence stood in front of her , waiting , and in back of her , blocking her retreat . She stumbled over the root of a tree that protruded maliciously above the earth . In spite of her attempt to preserve her balance , she fell , bruising her arm on a naked stone . For a moment , she could not catch her breath and then , her breath returning in short , frightened spasms , she lifted herself to her feet laboriously . She started to brush the dirt and bits of leaves off her clothes . Her arm bled slightly , and the offended skin cried out in pain . She looked around . She was bewildered . She seemed to have come such a long distance -- too far for her destination which had wilfully been swallowed up in the greedy gloom of the trees . She stood quite still , trying to focus upon a direction in which to turn , a path to follow , a clue to guide her . She was standing in a thick grove . The trees were crowded so closely together that their branches overlapped , virtually shutting out the sun completely . The earth smelled moist and pungent as it might in a cave deprived of the cleansing effect of the sun rays . She had the feeling that , under the mouldering leaves , there would be the bodies of dead animals , quietly decaying and giving their soil back to the mountain . The thought made Pamela shudder . A terrible chill swept through the grove . Not a breeze exactly , but a pocket of icy air that settled with a loathsome familiarity upon the deep confines of the grove , catching Pamela in a leering embrace . There was a peculiar density about it , a thick substance that could be sensed but never identified , never actually perceived . Where before had she felt or dreamt or imagined such a scene ? She already knew this unwholesome , chilling atmosphere that was somehow grotesquely alive . It enclosed her clammy hands and twined around her ankles . It crept into the open neck of her blouse and slid down her body , seeping into her flesh through all the quivering pores of her skin . It crawled across her breasts , suffocating the life in her nipples . It circled her thighs , exploring with its icy tentacles . It entered her body with the ghastly intimacy of an incubus , and its particles , spreading , creeping , crawling , joined themselves into steel bands that constricted her knees so tightly that they ached ; tifled her lungs so that her breath came in harsh gasps ; lutched her throat and sucked up the moisture in her mouth so that her tongue was dry and hard and stuck to the roof of her mouth and her teeth were clenched together in the rigid fixture of her jaws . She had to get away from here before this demoniac possession swallowed up the liquid of her eyes and sank into the fibers of her brain , depriving her of reason and sight . But she did not know which way to go . The shadows of the trees engulfed her , foreclosing every possible exit from the grove . She had been snared here by a vile sensuality that writhed around her throat in ever-tightening circles . She could not scream , for even if a sound could take shape within her parched mouth , who would hear , who would listen ? Does the mountain listen ? Pamela groped blindly . She had to escape . She had to move in some direction -- any direction that would take her away from this evil place . She thrust forward through the shadows and the trees that resisted her and tried to fling her back . Her own body protested , aching painfully where the blood in her veins had congealed , where cold demon wisps still clung and caressed . Every movement she made seemed unnecessarily noisy . Twigs cracked loudly under her feet ; ushes swished and scratched at her slacks ; ree branches snapped as she pushed them ruthlessly away from her . 
Miraculously , she found exactly the right statement . She began it deliberately , so that none of her words would be lost on him . `` I want to tell you something Thomas DeMontez Lord . I well aware that you e got a pedigree as long as my leg , and that I don amount to anything . But -- `` But it don matter a-tall , Lord supplied fondly . `` To me you l always be the girl o ' my dreams , an ' the sweetest flower that grows . Beaming idiotically , he pooched out his lips and attempted to kiss her . She yanked away from him furiously . `` You shut up ! Shu-tt up-pp ! I e got something to say to you , and by God you e going to listen . Do you hear me ? You e going to listen ! Lord nodded agreeably . He said he wanted very much to listen . He knew that anything a brainy little lady like her had to say would be plumb important , as well as pleasin ' to the ear , and he didn want to miss a word of it . So would she mind speaking a little louder ? `` I think you stink , Tom Lord ! I think you e mean and hateful and stupid , and -- louder ? Said Joyce . `` Uh-huh . So I can hear you while I checkin ' the car . Looks like we might be in for a speck of trouble . He opened the door and got out . He waited at the car side for a moment , looking down at her expectantly . `` Well ? Wasn you goin ' to say somethin ' ? Then , helpfully , as she merely stared at him in weary silence , `` Maybe you could write it down for me , huh ? Print it in real big letters , an ' I can cipher it out later . `` Aah , go on , she said . `` Just go the hell on . He grinned , nodded , and walked around to the front of the car . Lips pursed mournfully , he stared down at its crazily sagging left side . Then he hunkered down on the heels of his handmade boots , peered into the orderly chaos of axle , shock absorber , and spring . He went prone on his stomach , the better to pursue his examination . After a time , he straightened again , brushing the red Permian dust from his hands , slapping it from his six-dollar levis and his tailored , twenty-five-dollar shirt . He wore no gun -- a strange ommission for a peace officer in this country . Never , he once told Joyce , had he encountered any man or situation that called for a gun . And he really feels that way , she thought . That really all he got , all he is . Just a big pile of self-confidence in an almost teensy package . If I could make myself feel the same way She studied him hopefully , yearningly ; gainst the limitless background of sky and wasteland it was easy to confirm her analysis . Here in the God-forsaken place , the westerly end of nowhere , Tom Lord looked almost insignificant , almost contemptible . He was handsome , with his coal-black hair and eyes , his fine-chiseled features . But she known plenty of handsomer guys , and , conceding his good looks , what was there left ? He wasn a big man ; ather on the medium side . Neither was he very powerful of build . He could move very quickly , she knew ( although he seldom found occasion to do so ) , but he was more wiry than truly strong . And his relatively small hands and feet gave him an almost delicate appearance . Just nothing , she told herself . Just so darned sure of himself that he puts the Indian sign on everyone . But , by gosh , I want him and I going to have him ! He caught her eye , came back around the car with the boot-wearer ; eetering , half-mincing walk . Why did these yokels still wear boots , anyway , when most had scarcely sat a horse in years ? He slid in at her side , tucked a cigar into his mouth , and politely proffered one to her . `` Oh , cut it out , Tom ! She snapped . `` Can you stop that stupid clowning for even a minute ? `` This ain your brand , maybe , Lord suggested . `` Or maybe you just don feel like a cigar ? `` I feel like getting back to town , that what I feel like ! Now , are you going to take me or am I supposed to walk ? `` Might get there faster walkin ' , Lord drawled , `` seein ' as how I got a busted front spring . On the other hand , howsomever , maybe you wouldn either . I figger it probl a sixty-five-mile walk , and I c maybe get this spring patched up in a couple of hours . `` How -- with what ? There nothing out here but rattlesnakes . `` Now , ain it the truth ? Lord laughed with secret amusement . `` Not a danged thing but rattlesnakes , so I reckon I l get the boss rattler to help me . `` Tom ! For God sake ! `` Looky . He pointed , cutting her off . `` See that wildcat ? She saw it then , the distant derrick of the wildcat -- a test well in unexplored country . And even with her limited knowledge of such things , she knew that the car could be repaired there ; ufficiently , at least , to get them back into town . A wildcatter had to be prepared for almost any emergency . He had to depend on himself , since he was invariably miles and hours away from others . `` Well , let get going , she said impatiently . `` I -- She broke off , frowning . `` What did you mean by that rattlesnake gag ? Getting the boss rattlesnake to help you ? `` Why , I meant what I said , Lord declared . `` What else would I mean , anyways ? She looked at him , lips compressed . Then , with a shrug of pretended indifference , she took a compact from her purse and went through the motions of fixing her make-up . In his mood , it was the best way to handle him ; hat is , to show no curiosity whatsoever . Otherwise , she would be baited into a tantrum -- teased and provoked until she lost control of herself , and thus lost still another battle in the maddening struggle of Tom Lord Vs . Joyce Lakewood . The car lurched along at a snail crawl , the left-front mudguard banging and scraping against the tire , occasionally scraping against the road itself . Lord whistled tunelessly as he fought the steering wheel . He seemed very pleased with himself , as though some intricate scheme was working out exactly as he had planned . Along with this self-satisfaction , however , Joyce sensed a growing tension . It poured out of him like an electric current , a feeling that the muscles and nerves of his fine-drawn body were coiling for action , and that that action would be all that he anticipated . Joyce had seen him like this once before -- more than once , actually , but on one particularly memorable occasion . That was the day that he had practically mopped up the main street of Big Sands with Aaron McBride , field boss for the Highlands Oil & Gas Company . Tom had been laying for Aaron McBride for a long time , just waiting to catch him out of line . McBride gave him his opportunity when he showed up in town with a pistol on his hip . He had a legitimate reason for wearing it . It was payday for Highlands , and he was packing a lot of money back into the oil fields . Moreover , as long as the weapon was carried openly , the sheriff office had made no previous issue of it . `` So what this all about ? He demanded , when Lord confronted him . I not the only man in town with a gun , or the only one without a permit . It was the wrong thing to say . By failing to do as he was told instantly -- to take out a permit or return the gun to his car -- he had played into Lord hands . The trouble was that he had virtually had to protest . The deputy had forced him to by his manner of accosting him . So , `` How about it ? He said . `` Why single me out on this permit deal ? `` Well , I l tell you about that , Lord told him . `` We aim t ' be see-lective , y now ? Don like to bother no one unless we have to , which I figger we do , in your case . Figger we got to be plumb careful with any of you Highlands big shots . McBride reddened . He himself had heard that there was gangster money in the company , but that had nothing to do with him . He was an honest man doing a hard job , and the implication that he was anything else was unbearable . `` Look , Lord , he said hoarsely . `` I know you e got a grudge against me , and maybe I can blame you . You think that Highlands swindled you and I helped m do it . But you e all wrong , man ! I no lawyer . I just do what I told , and -- `` uh-huh . An ' that could mean trouble with a fella that workin ' for crooks . So you get rid of that pistol right now , Mis-ter McBride . You do that or take you out a permit right now . McBride couldn do either , of course . Not immediately , as the deputy demanded . Not without a face-saving respite of at least a few minutes . To do so would make his job well-nigh impossible . Oil-field workers were a rough-tough lot . How could he exert authority over them -- make them toe the line , as he had to -- if he knuckled under to this small-town clown ? `` I l get around to it a little later , he mumbled desperately . `` Just as soon as I go to the bank , and -- `` huh-uh . Now , Mis-ter McBride , said Lord , and he laid a firmly restraining hand on the field boss arm . It was strictly the deputy game , but McBride had gone too far to throw in . Now , he could only play the last card in what was probably the world coldest deck . He flung off Lord hand and attempted to push past him , inadvertently shoving him into a storefront . It was practically the last move that McBride made of his own volition . Lord slugged him in the stomach , so hard that the organ almost pressed against his spine . Then , as he doubled , gasping , vomiting the breakfast he had so lately eaten , Lord straightened him with an uppercut . A rabbit punch redoubled him . And then there was a numbing blow to the heart , and another gut-flattening blow to the stomach But he couldn keep up with them . No more could he defend himself against them . He seemed to be fighting not one man but a dozen . And he could no longer think of face-saving , of honor , but only of escape . Why , he going to kill me , he thought wildly . I meant him no harm . I e given willful hurt to no man . I was just doing my job , just following orders , and for that he going to kill me . Beat me to death in front of a hundred people . Somehow more terrible than the certainty that he was about to die was the knowledge that Lord would probably not suffer for it : the murder would go unpunished . He , McBride , would be cited as in the wrong , and he , Lord , would go scot-free , an officer who had only done his duty , though perhaps too energetically . McBride staggered into the street , flopped sprawling in the stinging dust . Fear-maddened , fleeing the lengthening shadow of death , he scrambled to his feet again . He couldn see ; e was long past the point of coherent thinking . Dimly , he heard laughter , hoots of derision , but he could not read the racket properly . He could not grasp that Lord had withdrawn from the fight minutes ago , and that his leaden arms were flailing at nothing but the air . He hated them too much to understand -- the people of this isolated law-unto-itself world that was Lord world . This , he was sure , was the way they would act ; aughing at a dying man , laughing as a man was beaten to death . And nothing would be done about it . Nothing unless Donna ! Donna , his young wife , the girl who was both daughter and wife to him . Donna was like he was . She lived by the rules , never compromising , never blinded or diverted by circumstance . And Donna would -- When he regained consciousness he was in Lord house , in the office of Doctor Lord , the deputy deceased father . 
The Brannon outfit -- known as the Slash-B because of its brand -- reached Hondo Creek before sundown . The herd was watered and then thrown onto a broad grass flat which was to be the first night bedground . Two of the new hands , a Mexican named Jose Amado and a kid known only as Laredo , were picked for the first trick of riding night herd . The rest of the crew offsaddled their mounts and turned them into the remuda . They got tin cups of coffee from the big pot on the coosie fire , rolled and lighted brown-paper cigarettes , lounged about . There was some idle talk , a listless discussion of this or that small happening during the day drive . But they deliberately avoided the one subject that had them all curious : the failure of the boss wife and son to join the outfit . It especially bothered the older hands . The cook , Mateo Garcia , had arrived there long before the herd . He started a fire and put coffee on , and now was busy at the work board of his chuck wagon . He was readying a batch of sourdough biscuits for the Dutch oven . Supper would be ready within the hour . The Maguire family was setting up a separate camp nearby . Billie had unhitched the mules from both Tom Brannon and his father wagon . Hank had gathered wood for a cookfire , and his wife was busy at it now . Conchita kept an eye on the twins and little Elena , trying to keep them from falling into the creek by which they persisted in playing . Conchita nagged at the younger children , attempting without success to keep her thoughts off Tom Brannon . Tom Brannon had caught up with the outfit shortly after the Maguires joined it , which had been at midday . He come alone , without his wife and child . He been in an angry mood : Conchita had thought his face almost ugly with the anger in him . She wondered what had taken place in town , between him and his wife . She wished that she could talk to her mother about it . Not that her mother knew what had happened , but they could speculate upon it . But her mother would rebuke her if she mentioned it , and say that it was none of her concern . `` Pat , get out of that creek ! You too , Sean ! Elena , you l get mud all over your dress ! Even as she called to the children , Conchita let her gaze seek Tom Brannon . Tomas , she called him -- as the Mexican hands did . He was in earnest conversation with her father and the old vaquero , Luis Hernandez . Whatever they are talking about ? Conchita wondered . It bothered her that she probably would never know . Certainly , she wouldn dare ask her father afterward . He would tell her not to pry into grownups ' affairs -- as though she were a little kid like Elena ! At the moment , the three men were not saying much of anything . They were sitting on their heels , rider-fashion , over by the still empty calf wagon . Brannon was hunkered down with his broad back to the left rear wheel , with the other two facing him . He held a cigarette in his right hand . It was burning away , forgotten . His face was clouded with unhappiness . He told Hank Maguire and Luis Hernandez about his wife refusal to come with him and about what he now intended to do . They were considering it gravely , neither seeming to like what he planned . Finally Hernandez said , `` I could offer you advice , Tomas , but you wouldn heed it . `` Let hear it , anyway . `` Wait a little while . Let Senora Brannon live in her father house for a time . Give her time to miss you . Maybe she will then come to you . After all , you want the senora as much as you want the boy . You need her even more than you need him . `` She won change her mind , Brannon said . `` John Clayton will see to that . `` But after a time away from you . `` A year , Luis ? Five ? Ten ? How long should I wait ? `` Maybe in a year , Tomas . `` In a year she l like living in Clayton house too much to come back to me , Brannon said flatly . `` And the boy will be too much under his influence by then . I e got to take Danny away from Clayton before I lose him altogether . Hell , in a year or five or ten , the boy will have forgotten me -- his own father ! `` But to take him and leave his mother behind is not good . `` In my place , you follow such advice as you give me ? Hernandez looked suddenly uncertain . `` That I can answer , for I can imagine something like this happening to me . Maybe I should withdraw my advice -- no ? Brannon looked at Hank Maguire . `` And you ? What would you do in my place ? Hank shook his head . `` I don know , Tom . Like Luis , I can see something like this happening to me . With Maria and me , there never any problem . Where I go , she goes -- and the kids with us . You e going to need your woman . And the boy will need his mother . If you take the one , you better take both . Brannon shook his head . `` I won force Beth to come against her will . But I going to have my son . They were silent for a little while , each looking glum . Finally Luis Hernandez said , `` What must be , must be . I am with you , of course , Tomas . And Hank Maguire added , `` So am I , Tom . `` All right , Brannon said , rising . `` We l ride out as soon as we e had chuck . Brannon timed it so that they rode in an hour after nightfall . They had for cover both darkness and a summer storm . During much of the fifteen-mile ride they had watched a lurid display of lightning in the sky to the east . Later , they heard the rumble of thunder and then , just outside Rockfork , they ran into rain . Those who had slickers donned them . The others put on old coats or ducking jackets , whichever they carried behind their saddle cantles . There were seven of them , enough for a show of strength -- to run a bluff . It was to be nothing more than that . There was to be no gunplay . If the bluff failed and they ran into trouble , Brannon had told the others , they would withdraw -- and he would come after his son another time . He didn want to put himself outside the law . With him were Hank Maguire , Luis Hernandez , and Luis son Pedro . The Ramirez brothers were also along . The seventh man was Red Hogan , a wiry little puncher with a wild streak and a liking for hell-raising . They were all good men . It was dark early , because of the storm . Also because of the storm , the streets of Rockfork were deserted . Lighted windows glowed jewel-bright through the downpour . They reined in before the town marshal office , a box-sized building on Main Street . A lamp burned inside , but Brannon , peering through the window , saw that the office was empty . He hoped to catch Jesse Macklin there . `` Probably just stepped out , he said . `` Maybe to have supper . Red , come along . The rest of you wait here . With Red Hogan , he rode to the Welcome Cafe . Hogan got down from the saddle and had a look inside . `` Not there , he said , getting back onto his horse . `` Maybe he at the hotel . They rode to the Rockfork House , a little farther along the opposite side of the street . They reined in there , Brannon remaining in the saddle while Hogan went to look for Jesse Macklin in the hotel dining room . Brannon had no slicker . He put on his old brown corduroy coat and it was already soaked . But he felt no physical discomfort . He was only vaguely aware of the sluicing rain . He hardly noticed the blue-green flashes of lightning and the hard claps of thunder . Hogan reappeared , stopped on the hotel porch , lifted a hand in signal . Brannon dismounted and climbed the steps . `` He finished eating , Hogan said . `` Sitting with a cup of coffee now . It shouldn be long . It seemed long , at least to Tom Brannon . He and Hogan waited by the door , one to either side . Macklin was the third man to come out , and he came unhurriedly . He was puffing on a cigar , and he was turning up his coat collar against the rain . It was not until he moved across the porch that he became aware of them , and then it was too late . They closed in fast , kept him from reaching inside his coat for his gun . `` Just come along , Brannon told him . `` Don start anything you can finish . `` Now , listen -- Macklin began . `` We l talk over at your office . `` Brannon , I warn you ! `` Let go , Marshal , Brannon said , and took him by the arm . Hogan gripped the lawman other arm . They escorted him down from the porch and through the rain to his office . The other five Slash-B men followed them inside , crowding the small room . His face was stiff with anger when they let go of his arms . He looked at each of them in turn , Brannon last of all . `` I l remember you , he said . `` Every last one of you . As for you , Brannon -- `` Put your gun on the desk , Marshal . `` Now , hold on , damn it ; won -- Red Hogan patience ran out . He lifted the skirt of Macklin coat , took his gun from its holster , tossed it onto the desk . `` Too much fooling around , he said . `` Don press your luck , badge-toter . Brannon said , `` Now the key to the lockup , Marshal . `` Key ? Macklin said . `` What for ? `` Can you guess ? Brannon said . `` We e putting you where you won come to harm . Come on -- the key . Get it out ! `` Damned if I will . Brannon , you e assaulted a law officer and -- They moved in on him , crowded him from all sides . No man laid a hand on him , but the threat of violence was there . His face took on a sudden pallor , became beaded with sweat , and he seemed to have trouble with his breathing . He held out a moment longer , then his nerve gave under the pressure . He swore , and said , `` All right . It here in my pocket . `` Get it out , Brannon ordered . Then , as Macklin obeyed : `` Now let go out back . Resignedly , Macklin turned to the back door . They followed him into the rain and across to the squat stone building fifty feet to the rear . The door of the lockup was of oak planks and banded with strap iron . It was secured by an oversized padlock . Macklin balked again , not wanting to unlock and open the door . They crowded him in that threatening way once more , forced him to give in . Once the door was open , they crowded him inside the dark building . He was uttering threats in a low but savage voice when they closed and padlocked the door . They returned to the street , mounted their horses , rode through the rain to the big house on Houston Street . Its windows glowed with lamplight . Deputy Marshal Luke Harper still stood guard on the veranda , a forlorn , scarecrowish figure in the murky dark . He came to the edge of the veranda , peered down at them with his hand on his gun . `` Don try it , Brannon told him , dismounting and starting up the steps with his men following . `` Don get yourself killed for something that doesn concern you . He strode past the now frightened man , entered the house . Miguel and Arturo Ramirez remained on the veranda to keep Harper from interfering . The others followed Brannon inside . They trailed him across the wide hallway to the parlor , four roughly garbed and tough-looking men who probably had never before ventured into such a house . They brought to it all the odors that clung to men like themselves , that of their own sweat , of campfire smoke , of horses and cattle . They tracked mud on the oaken floor , on the carpet . Their presence fouled the elegance of that room . And their arrival caught John Clayton and Charles Ansley off guard . 
The author of the anonymous notes seemed to be all-knowing . For men who had left cattle alone after getting their first notices had received no second . But the day of the deadline came and passed , and the men who had scoffed at the warnings laughed with satisfaction . For , with a single exception , nothing had happened to them . The exception was an Iron Mountain settler named William Lewis . After walking out to his corral that morning , he been amazed to see the dust puff up in front of his feet . A split second later , the distant crack of a rifle had sounded . He mounted up immediately and raced with a revolver ready toward the spot from which he estimated the shot had come . But he had found all of the thickets and points of cover deserted . There had been no sign of a rifleman and no track or trace to show that anyone had been near . Lewis was a man who had made a full-time job of cow stealing . He hadn even pretended to be farming his spread . His land had never been plowed . He had done his rustling openly and boasted about it . He had received both first and second anonymous notices , and each time he had accused his neighbors of writing them . He had cursed at them and threatened them . He was a man , those neighbors testified later , who didn have a friend in the world . William Lewis made the rounds of all who lived near him again , that August morning after a bullet landed at his feet , and once more he accused and threatened everyone . `` I l be ready next time ! He raged . `` I l be shootin ' right back . He had his chance the very next morning , for exactly the same thing happened again . This time Lewis had his own rifle in his hands , and he threw some answering fire back at the mysterious far-off shot , then spent most of the day searching out the area . He found nothing , but he still refused to give up and move out . `` Just let me meet up with that damned bushwhackin ' coward face-to-face ! He exploded . `` That all I ask ! He never got that chance . For the unseen , ghostlike rifleman aimed a little higher the third time . A bullet smashed directly into the center of William Lewis ' chest . He slumped against a log fence rail , then tried to lift himself . Two more shots followed in quick succession , dropping him limp and huddled on the ground . An inquest was held , and after a good deal of testimony about the anonymous notes , the county coroner estimated that the shooting had been done from a distance of 300 yards . Rumors of the offer Tom Horn had made at the Stockgrowers ' Association meeting had leaked out by then , and as a grand jury investigation of the murder got underway , the prosecuting attorney , a Colonel Baird , ordered that the tall stock detective be summoned for questioning . It took some time to locate Horn . He was finally found in the Bates Hole region of Natrona County , two counties away . Prosecutor Baird immediately assumed he was hiding out there after the shooting and began preparing an indictment . But that indictment was never made . For Tom Horn , it turned out , had a number of rancher and cowboy witnesses ready and willing to swear with straight faces that he had been in Bates Hole the day of the killing . The former scout alibi couldn be shaken . The authorities had to release him . He immediately rode on to Cheyenne , threw a ten-day drinking spree and dropped some very strong hints among friends . `` Dead center at three hundred yards , that coroner said ! He grin . `` Three shots in that fella ore he hit the ground ! You reckon there two men in this state can shoot like that ? Publicly , he denied everything . Privately , he created and magnified an image of himself as a hired assassin . For a blood-chilling ring of terror to the very sound of his name was the tool he needed for the job he promised to do . Tom Horn was soon back at work , giving his secret employers their money worth . A good many beef-hungry settlers were accepting the death of William Lewis as proof that the warning notes were not idle threats . The company herds were being raided less often , and cabins and soddies all over the range were standing deserted . But there were other homesteaders who passed the Lewis murder off as a personal grudge killing , the work of one of his neighbors . The rustling problem was by no means solved . Even in the very area where the shooting had been done , cattle were still disappearing . For less than a dozen miles from the unplowed land of the dead man lived another settler who had ignored the warnings that his existence might be foreclosed on -- a blatant and defiant rustler named Fred Powell . `` Fred was mighty crude about the way he took in cattle his own hired man , Andy Ross , mentioned later . `` Everyone knew it , but he sort of acted like he didn care who knew it -- even after them notes came , even after he heard about Lewis , even after he been shot at a couple o ' times hisself ! On the morning of September 10 , 1895 , Powell and Ross rose at dawn and began their day work . Haying time was close at hand , and they needed some strong branches to repair a hay rack . Harnessing a team to a buckboard , they drove out to a willow-lined creek about a half-mile off , then climbed down and began chopping . Andy Ross had just started swinging an ax at his second willow when the distant blast of a rifle sounded . He looked around in surprise , then noticed that Fred Powell was clutching his chest . The hired man ran over to help his boss . `` My God , I shot ! Powell gasped . And he collapsed and died instantly . Ross had no intention of searching for the assassin . He heaved the dead man onto the buckboard , yelled and lashed at the team and got out of there fast . But he brought back the sheriff and several deputies , and to the lawmen the entire affair seemed a repetition of the Lewis killing . A detailed scouring of the entire area revealed nothing beyond a ledge of rocks that might have been the rifleman hiding place . There were no tracks of either hoofs or boots . Not even an empty cartridge case could be found . Once again , Tom Horn was the first and most likely suspect , and he was brought in for questioning immediately . Once again , he shook his head , kept his face expressionless and his voice very calm , and had a strongly supported alibi ready . Later , riding in for some lusty enjoyment of the liquor and professional ladies of Cheyenne , he laid claim to the killing with the vague insinuations he made . `` Exterminatin ' cow thieves is just a business proposition with me , he blandly announce . `` And I sort o ' got a corner on the market . `` Tom , a friend asked him once , `` how come you bushwhacked them rustlers ? They wouldn o ' stood no chance with you in a plain , straight-out shoot-down . He had lots of friends , then as always . Even as he became widely known as a professional killer , nearly every cowboy and rancher in Wyoming seemed proud to call him a friend . No man name brought more cheers when it was announced in a rodeo . `` Well , he explained , `` s osin ' you was a nester swingin ' the long rope ? Which would you be most scairt of -- a dry-gulchin ' or a shoot-down ? `` Yeah , I can see that , the friend was forced to agree . `` But well , it just don seem sportin ' somehow ! `` Sportin ' ! The tall sunburnt rustler-hunter stared in amazement . `` Sportin ' ! He echoed again in soft wonder . `` I seen a lot o ' things in my time . I found a trooper once the Apache had spread-eagled on an ant hill , and another time we ran across some teamsters they caught , tied upside down on their own wagon wheels over little fires until their brains was exploded right out o ' their skulls . I heard o ' Texas cattlemen wrappin ' a cow thief up in green hides and lettin ' the sun shrink m and squeeze him to death . But there one thing I never seen or heard of , one thing I just don think there is , and that a sportin ' way o ' killin ' a man ! After the first two murders , the warning notes were rarely ignored . The lesson had been learned . The examples were plain . When Fred Powell brother-in-law , Charlie Keane , moved into the dead man home , the anonymous letter writer took no chances on Charlie taking up where Fred had left off and wasted no time on a first notice : If you don leave this country within 3 days , your life will be taken the same as Powell was . This was the message found tacked to the cabin door . Keane left , within three days . All through Albany and Laramie counties , other men were doing the same . Houses of settlers who treated the company herds as a natural resource , free for the taking , were sitting empty , with weeds growing high in their yards . The small half-heartedly tended fields of men who spent more time rustling cattle than farming were lying fallow . No cow thief could count on a jury of his sympathetic peers to free him any longer . Jury , judge and executioner were riding the range in the form of a single unknown figure that could materialize anywhere , at any time , to dispense an ancient brand of justice the men of the new West had believed long outdated . For three straight years , Tom Horn patrolled the southern Wyoming pastures , and how many men he killed after Lewis and Powell ( if he killed Lewis and Powell ) will never be known . It is possible , although highly doubtful , that he killed none at all but merely let his reputation work for him by privately claiming every unsolved murder in the state . It is also possible , but equally doubtful , that he actually shot down the hundreds of men with which his legend credits him . For that legend was growing explosively , Rumor was insisting he received a price of $600 a man . ( The best evidence is that he received a monthly wage of about $125 , very good money in an era when top hands worked for $30 and found . ) Rumor had it he slipped two small rocks under each victim head as a sort of trademark . ( A detailed search of old coroner reports fails to substantiate this in the slightest . ) One thing was certain -- his method was effective , so effective that after a time even the warning notices were often unnecessary . The mere fact that the tall figure with the rifle and field glasses had been seen riding that way was enough to frighten three rustling homesteaders out of the Upper Laramie country in a single week . `` My reputation my stock in trade , Tom mentioned more than once . He evidently couldn foresee that it might be his downfall in the end . He had made himself the personification of the Devil to the homesteaders . But to the cattlemen who had been facing bankruptcy from rustling losses and to the cowboys who had been faced with lay-offs a few years earlier , he was becoming a vastly different type of legendary figure . Such ranchers as Coble and Clay and the Bosler brothers carried him on their books as a cowhand even while he was receiving a much larger salary from parties unknown . He made their spreads his headquarters , and he helped out in their roundups . In the cow camps , Tom Horn was regarded as a hero , as the same kind of champion he was when he entered and invariably won the local rodeos . The hands and their bosses saw him as a lone knight of the range , waging a dedicated crusade against a lawless new society that was threatening a beloved way of life . The wailing , guitar-strumming minstrels of the cattle kingdom made up songs about him . By 1898 , rustling losses had been driven down to the lowest level ever seen in Wyoming . 
When several minutes had passed and Curt hadn emerged from the livery stable , Brenner reentered the hotel and faced Summers across the counter . `` I have a little job for you , Charlie . I sure you won mind doing me a small favor . Brenner voice was oily , but Summers wasn fooled . He moistened his lips uneasily . `` What is it you want me to do , Mr . Brenner ? Brenner shrugged carelessly . `` It very simple . I just want you to take a message to Diane Molinari . Tell her to come here to the hotel . Vastly relieved , Summers nodded and started toward the door . `` One thing , Summers , Brenner said . `` You e not to mention my name . Tell her Curt Adams wants to see her . Summers pulled up short , and turned around . `` I don know , Mr . Brenner , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of Brenner plans . `` It doesn seem quite right , telling her a thing like that . Couldn I just -- His voice trailed off into silence . Brenner continued to smile , but his eyes were cold . He turned and looked around at the lobby as though seeing things he hadn before noticed . `` You know , Summers , he said thoughtfully . `` Eagle Nest ought to have a fire company . If someone were to drop a match in here , this place would go up like a haystack . He started toward the stairway , then turned to add , `` Tell her to come to Adams room , that Adams is in trouble . Tell her to hurry . `` Yes sir . His face pale , Summers headed for the street . Curt visit to the livery stable had been merely a precaution in case anyone should be watching . He paused only long enough to ascertain that Jess buckskin was still missing and that his own gray was all right , then climbed through a back window and dropped to the ground outside . The fact that Jess horse had not been returned to its stall could indicate that Diane information had been wrong , but Curt didn interpret it this way . A man like Jess would want to have a ready means of escape in case it was needed . Probably his horse would be close to where he was hiding . From the back of the barn it was a simple matter to reach Black house without using the street . Curt approached the place cautiously , and watched it several minutes from the protection of a grove of trees . There was a light in Black front room , but drawn curtains prevented any view of the interior . Curt circled the house and located a barn out back . He could hear horses moving around inside , and nothing else . There was no lock on the door , only an iron hook which he unfastened . He opened the door and went in , pulling it shut behind him . Again he stood in the darkness listening , but there was only the scrape of a shod hoof on a plank floor . He moved ahead carefully , his left hand in front of him , and came to a wooden partition . Horse smell was very strong , and he could hear the crunch of grain being ground between strong jaws . He found a match in his pocket and lit it . There were two horses in the barn , a sway-backed dun and Jess Crouch buckskin . Curt snuffed out the match . It was certain now that Jess was in the house , but also , presumably , was Stacey Black . Curt wanted to get Jess alone , without interference from anyone , even as spineless a person as the store owner . He studied the problem for a few seconds and thought of a means by which it might be solved . Reaching across the side of the stall , he slapped the buckskin on the rump . The startled animal let out a terrified squeal and thrashed around in the stall . As Curt had hoped , the house door banged open . He slapped the buckskin again and it kicked wildly , its hoofs rattling the side of the stall . Curt moved over beside the door and waited . Presently he heard footsteps crossing the yard , and Jess smothered curses . The door swung open , and Jess said sourly , `` What the hell the matter with you ? The horse continued to snort . Curt doubted that any animal belonging to Jess would find much reassurance in its owner voice . Jess cursed again , and entered the barn . A match flared , and he reached above his head to light a lantern which hung from a wire loop . As he crossed to the side of the stall , Curt drew his gun and clicked back the hammer . `` Before you try anything , he said . `` Remember what happened to Gruller . Jess caught his breath in surprise . He started to reach for his gun , but apparently thought better of it . `` That the stuff , Curt said . `` Just hold it that way . He reached out to pull the door shut and fasten it with a sliding bolt . `` You and I have a little talking to do , Jess . You won be needing this . He moved up and lifted Jess pistol out of its holster . `` Damn you , Adams -- Jess was beginning to recover from his initial shock . `` We ain got nothing to talk about . If I don come back in the house , Breed going to -- `` Your trigger-happy brother isn in the house . About now he probably having supper . That long ride the four of you took must e given him a good appetite . Now turn around so I can see your face . Jess turned . There was raw fury in his eyes , and the veins of his neck were swollen . `` You e about as dumb as they come , Adams . I don know what you e up to , but when Brenner -- `` You can forget about Brenner , too , Curt said . `` It Ben Arbuckle we e going to talk about . `` Arbuckle ? Jess stiffened . `` I don know nothin ' about him . `` No ? I suppose you don know anything about a piece of two-by-four , either ; ne with blood all over it , Arbuckle blood . Curt fingers put a little more pressure on the trigger of his gun . `` So help me , Crouch , I like to kill you where you stand , but , before I do , I going to hear you admit killing him . Now start talking . Who told you to do it ? Was it Dutch Brenner ? Curt was holding Jess gun in his left hand . He drew back his arm to slash the gunbarrel across Jess face , but didn finish the motion . Pistol-whipping an unarmed man might come easy to someone like Jess , but Curt couldn bring himself to do it . Apparently sensing this , and realizing that it gave him an advantage , Jess became bold . `` Having all the guns makes you a big man , don it , Adams ? If we was both armed , you wouldn talk so tough . `` No ? Curt reached out and dropped Jess pistol back into the holster . He retreated a step and holstered his own . `` All right , Crouch ; e e on even terms . Now draw ! Sweat bubbled out on Jess swarthy face . The fingers of his right hand twisted into a claw , but he didn reach for the gun . Curt , angry enough to be a little reckless , raised his hands shoulder high . `` Does this make it any easier , coward ? `` I ain drawin ' against you , Jess said thickly . `` I heard how you outdrew Chico . I ain a gunslinger . `` No . You e the kind of bastard who sneaks up on a man from behind and hits him with a club . I just wanted to hear you say so . Jess stared at him without answering and let his hands fall to his sides . He had found Curt weakness , or what to Jess was a weakness , and was smart enough to take advantage of it . Somewhere in the distance , a woman screamed . Curt was too involved in his own problems to pay much attention . He had to make Jess talk , and he had to do it before Stacey Black got curious and came to investigate . Once more he lifted Jess gun from its holster , only this time he tossed it into the stall with the frightened buckskin . He dropped his own beside it . `` We l do it another way , then , he said harshly . Jess coarse features twisted in a surprised grin which was smashed out of shape by Curt fist . With a roar of pain and fury Jess made his attack . Curt managed to duck beneath the man flailing fist , and drove home a solid left to Jess mid-section . It was like hitting a sack of salt . Pain shot up Curt arm clear to the shoulder , but Jess seemed hardly aware that he had been hit . He slammed into the wall , bounced back , and caught Curt with a roundhouse right which sent him spinning . An inch lower and it would have knocked him out . As it was , his vision blurred and for a moment he was unable to move . When his eyes began to focus , he saw Jess charging at him with a pitchfork . Curt twisted to one side , and the tines of the fork bit into the floor . Jess wasted a few seconds trying to yank them loose . It gave Curt time to stagger to his feet . The tines broke off under Jess twisting , and he swung the handle in an attempt to knock Curt brains out . His aim was hurried ; o the pitchfork whistled over Curt head . By now Curt was seeing clearly again . He stepped inside Jess guard and landed two blows to the big man belly , putting everything he had behind them . They made Jess double over . When his head came down , Curt grabbed him by the hair and catapulted him head first into the wall . The building shook , setting the lantern to swaying , and the buckskin to pitching again . Even Black old crowbait began to snort , and from the house Black yelled , `` Jess ! What going on out there ? Jess didn seem too sure himself . He lurched drunkenly to his feet , lowered his head , and took one step away from the wall . Curt caught him flush on the nose with a blow which started at the floor . Jess had had enough . Blood gushed from his nose , and he backed off as rapidly as he could , stumbling over his own feet in his frantic haste to get away from Curt fists . Curt was in almost as bad shape , but he wouldn quit . He backed Jess into a corner , grabbed a handful of the man shirtfront , and drew back his right fist . `` Tell me about Arbuckle ! You killed him , didn you ? `` It was Brenner idea , Jess mumbled , dabbing at his nose . `` He found out about you and Arbuckle talking . He wanted to show the town what happened to anyone who tried to start trouble . `` You mean anyone who stood up for his rights , Curt said . He let go of the shirt , and Jess slumped to the floor . Turning his back , Curt crossed to the stall , reached over to untie the buckskin halter rope , and waved his hand in the animal face . The buckskin bolted out of the stall . Curt moved in and picked up his gun . He shook loose straw out of the action , and placed the gun in his holster . Leaving Jess where it lay , he left the stall . `` Get up , Crouch . We e going someplace . Jess painfully got to his feet as someone rattled the door . `` Who in there ? Black called fearfully . Curt opened the door , grabbed Black by the shoulder , and pulled him into the barn . `` You e staying right here for a while . This dirty coward just admitted killing Arbuckle . I going to let him tell it to somebody else . He shoved Black toward the stall , and pointed his pistol at Jess . `` Get out of here . You e coming along peacefully , or I l put a bullet in your leg . Jess stumbled through the door . Curt followed , reaching behind him to shut the door and hook it . Black would have little trouble getting out , but it might delay him a few minutes . `` Where e you takin ' me ? Jess asked worriedly . `` We e going to Marshal Woods house . Maybe if the marshal hears this himself , it l make a difference . Somebody in this town must still have some backbone . 
Over his shoulder he could see Max loose grin and the Burnsides ' glowering faces . `` Honey , he whispered . `` Soon as we send them on their way and make camp , let you and me go for a walk down by the Snake -- all by ourselves . `` Sally , admonished her mother , `` you e got all evening to visit with Dan . His wounds need dressing now . Mrs . Jackson words recalled Dan to his lack of fitness for courting . What a spectacle he was , caked with dirt and sweat and blood , filthy as a pig and naked as an Indian , kissing the finest , the sweetest , the bravest , and absolutely the prettiest girl in this whole wonderful world . He released her reluctantly for her enthusiastic reunion with Old Hap . `` Got a lot to tend to , but I l get back quick as I can , he assured her . Dan could hear Clayton Burnside and Eben Jackson summing up their final reckoning for rental on the oxen . Jackson was doing most of the talking . So long as Sally pa was coming out best on the haggle , Dan didn feel the need of putting in his two-bits ' worth . Soon as the Burnsides moved on , he lead Rex down by the river ; here he could shave and scrub himself up for the evening . Damn it , he thought bitterly , picking up his shirt and staring at the fresh bullet hole in the sleeve . If I hadn got Nate stopped when I did , my duds all be shot plumb to hell ! He stooped , picked up his ruined hat , and pursed his lips thoughtfully . From the way the wound in his head was itching , Dan knew that it would heal . But his only hat was something else again . `` Nate ! Nate ! He shouted . The Burnsides , now ready to roll , were purposefully deaf to his cry . `` Nate ! He bellowed to the retreating back directly in front of him . `` I ain going to fight you no more . Nate turned his head , attempting to speak in a soothing voice . `` I know you ain ! Dan affirmed , feeling ten feet tall . He moved in close , jerked the handsome , broad-brimmed beaver hat from Nate head and clamped it on his own . `` Here a present for you , he said , shoving his bullet-riddled hat down over Nate purpling forehead . `` Me and you trading hats so you l have something permanent to remember me by ! Sally left her choring to stand beside Dan . Slipping her hand in his , they silently watched the Burnsides make the bend in the road and disappear from sight . Much as they had to look forward to , they didn begrudge a moment of the time they spent seeing them go . At first Matilda could not believe her own eyes . She had spent too many hours looking ahead , hoping and longing to catch even a glimpse of Dan and finding nothing but emptiness . And now she could see him , looking uncommon handsome , standing there beside Sally Jackson and her folks in front of their trail-worn wagon . Seeing them waiting there at the foot of Emigrant Rock was so overwhelming that , for a good minute after they rounded the bend and started down the grade leading toward them , Matilda could not speak at all . Then , with a glory that almost wiped out the deep , downward sags in her careworn face , Matilda leaned over the wheel and shouted to Hez , who was stumbling along in the heat and the dust on the opposite side of the wagon `` Pa ! Pa ! I can see Dan . And he with the Jacksons ! `` What about Burnsides ? Hez asked , who still believed they have them to lick . `` They ain even in sight ! She replied . By then Hez could see for himself , and so could the others . Soon they were all shouting greetings , exchanging smiles , and rejoicing to think that they were all back together again . But even a reunion as joyous as this one did not make a break in the routines of the day . Nor could they stop and find out about all that had happened until they made circle , tended the cattle , tethered the horses , gathered fuel , carried water , and started their cooking fires . Then , and only then , with the Jacksons and Dan as their true guests of honor , did the Harrows take time to catch up on the news . No sooner did they hear of Dan injury than both Gran and Matilda went into immediate action . The wound in his scalp was examined , pronounced healing , and well doctored with simples , before they dished up the victuals . From then on , in keeping with the traditions they had followed since childhood , the whole group settled down to relish their food . Even Sally , in spite of her gaiety and obvious welcome , followed the old taboo of `` quitting the gab when wearing the nosebag . After their supper , the evening turned into a regular `` Hoe-Down . Only , they carefully substituted old country folk dances for the Virginia Reels and square dances that were so popular among more worldly trains in the great westward migration . But with Bill O onnor on the fiddle , and Gran Harrow exuberantly shouting `` Glory Be and `` Hallelujah above their united chant of the lilting old ballads , they played their quaint folk games with all the fervor and abandon of a real celebration . `` Golly , Rod exclaimed to Harmony as he dutifully stood by her side among the ringed spectators , `` don that fiddle make you wish the Bible didn say us Baptists can dance ? `` Nor Methodists , neither , she replied . `` Not that it matters to me , being this far along . Rod gave her a warm pat on the shoulder before he replied . `` Come spring , you l be kicking up your heels and feeling coltish again too , gal . At these words of sympathy and understanding , Harmony said generously , `` I don mind setting here along with Gran while you go out and join in the games . Rod shifted his eager eyes from the milling group out in the circle long enough to reply , `` I ain much of a hand for Dare-Base and Farmer-in-the-Dell , but I sure like to get in on the handhold and wrestles . He looked down at his big hands and slowly flexed his long fingers . `` Don reckon there nobody out there , ept maybe Dan , who can outgrip me , Harmony . With Rod on his way and Matilda visiting with Mrs . Jackson while they searched out familiar names on the face of the cliff , Harmony settled on the edge of the grub box , to ease the pressure of her swollen body on her bone-weary legs , and worried about all that might have happened to Sally . And she was deeply thankful that she could see her now , out there in the midst of a gay , youthful circle , skipping and singing , `` Farmer in the dell , Farmer in the dell , Heigh-ho the dairy-oh , the farmer in the dell . At the sight of Sally happy face and carefree expression , Harmony dark , brooding eyes quickly brightened with unshed tears . She was glad , completely and unselfishly glad , to see that things were working out the right way for both Sally and Dan . And she really tried to go a step further and say she hoped they be just as right as they now were for her and for Rod . But she couldn , not yet . Not with the memory of her folks and the lost Conestoga still holding her close . Out in the center of the circle the farmer , who was Dan , wasted no time when they came to the line , `` The farmer choose his wife . With a swift swoop of his big arms , he grabbed Sally out of the circle surrounding him , and then kissed her soundly before setting her down so she could stand by his side while they jointly chose the rest of their `` outfit . Soon the child , the dog , the cat and even the cheese , all joined them out there in the circle . By now Harmony could see that most of the adults in the train were winded and resting , or else siphoned off from the games by the challenging lure of the great cliff towering above them . No matter how many registry rocks they came to on this journey , each one exerted its own appeal . Even strange names seemed to make them feel closer to some kind of civilization when stumbled across out here in this wilderness . Already a few hardy folk from their own train were zealously chipping away at the register rocks , leaving their own records along with those made by the earlier trains . Soon she saw Rod and Hez moving over to join them . No sooner were they through and the guards posted , than the whole camp turned in for a night of sound sleep . For Matilda , it was the first she had known in many a night . Even the knowledge that she was losing another boy , as a mother always does when a marriage is made , did not prevent her from having the first carefree , dreamless sleep that she had known since they dropped down the canyon and into Bear Valley , way , way back there when they were crossing those other mountains . Next morning , they moved on again . `` My souls ' a-gracious ! Gran Harrow exclaimed , watching their rippling muscles as Rod and Dan swung her up into the load . `` A body would swear I floated right up here on a cloud ! Rod and Dan released their holds on the arms of her hickory rocker and exchanged embarrassed grins . `` Shucks , Gran , they said almost in unison . `` That wasn nothing at all ! Leaning forward in her chair , Gran nearsightedly scrutinized Dan face . `` How Sally like rubbin ' agin that thar little ticklebrush ye e a-raising ? `` Quit ragging him , Gran , Rod protested . `` I ain ragging him ! Gran peered again at the week-old blond mustache shadowing Dan upper lip . `` But honest-to-Betsy , I e seed more hair than that on a piece o ' bacon . The two tall brothers waited silently while their mother handed Gran her cold snack and water jug , placed the chamber pot beside her feet , and returned to her place at the front of the wagon with Alice . `` Rheumatics worse , Pa ? Dan asked Hez , who had limped back from his team to hold the notched-stick chair braces in place while his boys swung up the tailgate and tied it tight at the ends . `` My right leg stiff as a board this morning , he replied . `` But the sun l fry it out me onct we git to rolling . The three men stepped out to the side to wait for Captain Clemens ' signal . Hez looked up at the high face of Emigrant Rock , official signboard for the Raft River turnoff , and gloated , `` Seems funny that them Burnsides never took time to leave their John-Henry up thar . `` Wonder what made them hurry so , Rod drawled , giving Dan a sly wink . Dan grinned , and changed the subject . `` From now on , Sally and me and her folks aim to give you our turn when it comes up and fall in behind you and Rod outfit . `` Ain no sense you eating our dust , Rod protested . `` Sally and her ma want to trade off on account of Harmony being so far along , Dan explained . `` Jackson recruited his critters , and him and me fixed up his wagon while we was waiting for you to catch up . He got the tightest running gear in the train now . Besides , ain no more right for me to follow with my black oxen , so I can unhook and pull up fast if either of you get in a pinch . Captain Clemens ' signal shot sent the men hurrying to their waiting teams . `` Reckon ye e right , Dan , Hez called back over his shoulder . `` I l shore be needing ye both on the pull out o ' the canyon . Rod looked apprehensively ahead at the narrowing , precipice-walled gorge . `` We l double teams zigzagging up the mountain , Harmony , he spoke reassuringly , concerned by the pinched look around her mouth . `` Like enough we l all be up on top by sundown . Out of the corner of his eye , he could see his father wheels beginning to turn . Before Harmony had a chance to reply , Rod cracked his long whip over his thin oxen backs . 
While no larger than Dutch Springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous . Men crowded the streets and freight rigs and teams were moving about . Although they were forced to maintain a sharper watch , this activity enabled them to ride in and rack their broncs without any particular attention being paid them . `` Gyp l be holdin ' forth in some bar if he here at all , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs . There were no less than six or seven saloons in Ganado , not counting the lower class dives , all vying for the trade of celebrating miners and teamsters . Pat only nodded . `` Take one side of the street , and I l take the other , he proposed . `` If you spot Carmer give a yell before you move in . Cobb assent was tight . `` You do the same . It all I ask , Stevens . Separating , they took different sides of the main drag and systematically combed the bars . Russ visited two places without result and his blood pressure was down to zero . Suddenly it seemed to him insane that they might hope to locate Gyp Carmer so casually , even were he to prove the thief . He tramped out of the Miners Rest with his hopes plummeting , and headed doggedly for the Palace Saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street . The Palace was an elaborate establishment , built practically on stilts in front , with long flights of wooden steps running up to the porch . Behind its ornate facade the notorious dive clung like a bird nest to the rocky ribs of the canyonside . Russ ran up the steps quickly to the plank porch . The front windows of the place were long and narrow , reaching nearly to the floor and affording an unusually good view of the interior . Heading for the batwings , Cobb glanced perfunctorily through the nearest window , and suddenly dodged aside . Nerves tight as a bowstring , he paused to gather his wits . Against all expectation , Carmer was inside , clearly enjoying himself to the hilt and already so tipsy that it seemed unlikely he was bothering to note anything or anyone about him . Fierce anger surged through Russ . He fought down the impulse to rush in and collar the vicious puncher on the spot . Reaching the porch rail beyond view of the bar windows , he feverishly scanned the busy street below . Stevens was nowhere in sight . Muffling an exclamation , Russ sprang to the nearest steps and ran down . As luck had it , he had not gone twenty feet in the street before Pat appeared . `` What luck , Cobb ? He said swiftly . Russ pointed upward . `` He there , he got out tersely , curbing his rising excitement . Hitching his cartridge belt around , Pat glanced upward briefly at the Palace and started that way with Cobb at his side . Climbing the steps steadily , they reached the top and headed for the door . Pat pushed through first . Forced behind him momentarily , Russ followed at once and halted two steps inside . His eyes widened . While five minutes ago the place had presented a scene of easy revelry , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure , it was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday . Carmer himself was nowhere to be seen . A man knocked the roulette ball about idly in its track , and another dozed at one of the card tables . Two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass . Looking the setup over , Stevens started coolly for the rear of the place . `` Where yuh goin ' ? It was the barkeep . Halting , Pat turned to survey him deliberately . He did not reply , going on toward the back . Less assured than the tall , wide-shouldered man in the lead , Cobb followed alertly , a hand on his gun butt . The bartender measured this situation with heavy eyes and decided he wanted no part of it . He said no more . A hall opened in back of the bar , running toward an ell . Pat moved into it . Small rooms , probably for cards , opened off on either side . All the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that Stevens made his way with Russ close at his shoulder . The door was locked . A single kick made it spring open , shuddering . Pat saw Gyp Carmer staggering forward , a half-filled bottle upraised as if to strike . Russ sprang through to bat it nimbly aside . With a bellow Carmer lunged at him . But he was more than half-drunk , and his faculties were dulled . Cobb unleashed a single powerful jab that sent Gyp reeling wildly and crashing down with a whining groan . He started to struggle up , heaving desperately . Russ gave him a brutal thrust that tumbled him over flat on his stomach . Kneeling , Cobb planted a sturdy knee in the small of his back , holding him pinned . `` Okay , Stevens . I e drawn his fangs , he snapped . `` Go through his pockets , will you ? If we have to we l take him apart and see what he made of ! Complying methodically , Pat pulled pocket after pocket inside out without finding a thing . Cobb watched this with hunted eyes , his desperate hope waning by the moment . Stevens was grunting over the last empty pocket when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer hat , which had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away when he first fell . Cobb got it . Straightening up , his eyes ablaze , he held out the battered Stetson . `` Look at this ! Inside the crown , stuffed behind the stained sweatband , could be seen thin , crumpled wads of currency . Carmer ingenious cache for his loot had been found . `` By golly , Stevens ! You were right , Russ exclaimed , tearing the loose bills out of Carmer hat . `` That is , if we can be sure this is Colcord money -- Pat grunted . `` Where else would he get it ? Count what you e got there , Cobb . We can soon tell . Russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come by honestly . Pat nodded . `` It within a hundred of what Crip had , he declared . `` We know Penny spent some -- and Carmer must have dropped a few dollars getting that load on . Handing the money over , Russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs as if ridding himself of something unclean . His glance at Gyp Carmer was disdainful . `` Shall we get out of here ? Leaving the card room , they moved back through the Palace the way they had come . Glowering looks met them in the bar , but there was no attempt to halt them . Pausing in the outside door to glance behind him , Pat looked his unspoken warning and stepped out . He and Cobb clattered down the high steps to the street . Neither spoke till they reached their horses . Pat paused there , looking across at the young fellow . It l be a pleasure for you to return this money to Colcord and tell him about it , Russ . He started to return it . To his faint surprise Russ held up his hand . `` Not me , he ruled decidedly . I e had enough . It was you that tracked it down anyway , Stevens , he pursued strictly . `` I l shove along home . `` Whatever you say . Pat swung into the saddle , yet still he delayed , his brows puckered . `` You owe it to Penny to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , really , he observed mildly . `` Old Crip wasn , retorted Cobb tartly . `` He l know when you tell him . But I want this to sink in awhile . Then maybe next time he won be so quick on the trigger . `` Pat had never pretended to give advice in such affairs . `` You e the doctor , he returned with a smile . `` But I still think Penny an awful nice girl , Russ -- `` You don have to tell me , flashed Cobb . Giving the other a dark look , he hauled his bronc around and trotted down off the street . Pat let him go , following more leisurely . At the first restaurant he sensibly pulled up to go in for his dinner , and as a consequence did not see Cobb strike the open range at the mouth of the canyon and head straight across the swells for Antler . The truth was , the puncher was both bewildered and dismayed by his own mixed luck . `` Penny always glad to see me over there , he mused bleakly . Yet had he not visited the girl at Saw Buck he would never have been involved in this latest tangle . Over and above that , however , was his growing suspicion of Chuck Stober part in recent events . `` Gyp Carmer couldn have known about Colcord money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him ? He asked himself . `` It the second time War Ax hands made a play for that money . How much of an accident could that be ? Nearing home , he jerked to attention at the distant crack of a gun . In town no one paid much attention to an occasional shot ; ut on the range gunfire had a meaning . Hauling up , Russ listened carefully . Two minutes later it came again -- a double explosion , followed by a third , sounding more distant . As near as Cobb could determine the shots came from the direction of the Antler ranch house . He tightened up in a twinkling . So far as he knew , only his father could be there . What did it mean ? Clapping spurs to the bronc he set off at a sharp canter , with growing alarm . His first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told him nothing . Still a quarter-mile away , the fresh clap of guns only served to increase his speed . Setting a course straight for the house , he was covering ground fast when an angry bee buzzed past close to his face . When it was followed by a second , whining even closer , Cobb swerved sharply aside into a depression . He knew now what he was up against . Whoever was out there hiding in the brushy cover was besieging the Antler house and , having spotted his approach , was determined to drive him off before he could get into the fight . Cursing himself for having ridden out the last few days without a rifle in his saddle boot , Russ drew his Colt and examined it briefly . If he wondered whether the attackers would allow him to pull away unmolested , he had his answer a moment later . `` Over this way ! He ain gone far ! A harsh cry floated to him across the brush . A carbine cracked more loudly , and a slug clipped fragments from the brush off at one side . The would-be assassin had his position figured pretty close . Dismounting , Russ looked about hastily . Toward the west this depression led toward a draw . Leading his pony , he hurried that way , not remounting till he was well below the level of the surrounding range . Swinging up then , and bending forward over the horn , he urged his mount down the meandering draw . He had not covered a hundred yards before a gun crashed from somewhere behind . He had been sighted , and his attacker pumping shot after shot . A shot or two went wild before Cobb felt something tug at his foot . A slug had torn half of his stirrup-guard away . A second twitched his shirtsleeve , and he felt a brief burn on his upper arm . Another snarled close overhead . `` Jumping Jerusalem ! Let get out of here ! At the first shot Russ had hurled his mount to the left toward the side of the winding draw . The long minute before he reached effective cover seemed endless . Sweeping a look around , he saw that he was safe for the moment . He heard cries from behind him , but he could make out no words . He dashed madly for the next elbow turn in the draw , and made it . Recklessly hurling the bronc sidewise into an intersecting draw , he plunged forward with undiminished speed . Gradually the wash climbed upward , forcing him toward open range . Yet he must chance it . He clambered out of the dwindling wash , the loose dirt flying behind him , and flashed a look about . 
Early in November the clouds lifted enough to carry out the assigned missions . And Sweeney Squadron put its first marks on the combat record . Every plane that could fly was sent into the air . Cricket took eight ships and went south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan . Anything the enemy flew or floated was his target . Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships . Greg himself took two flights , with Todman leading the second , to patrol and look for targets of opportunities around Ormoc on the east coast of Leyte . Each plane carried two five-hundred pound bombs . A weapons carrier took Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip . It was a rough long ride through the mud and pot holes . No one had much to say . The sky glowered down at them . There was a feeling that this mission would be canceled like all the others and that this muddy wet dark world of combat would go on forever . The truck dropped them off at the various revetments spread through the jungle . Donovan snatched Greg chute from him with a belligerent motion and almost ran to the plane with it . His face was dark as the sky above it as he stood on the wing and waited for his pilot . Greg climbed into the cockpit feeling as if he had never been in one before . But his hands and those of Donovan moved automatically adjusting and arranging in the check-out procedure . `` I e got her as neat as I can , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg shoulders . `` But this goddamn climate . It for carabao not airplanes . `` We l make out . Don you worry , chief , Greg replied , wondering if he himself believed it . `` Yeah . See you , Donovan said as he jumped off the wing . The expression was his trade-mark , his open sesame to good luck , and his prayer that pilot and plane would always return . At the prearranged time , Greg started the engine and taxied out . From the time the chocks were pulled until the plane was out of sight , he knew Donovan would keep his back to the strip . He wondered where the superstition had originated that it was bad luck for a crew chief to watch his plane take off on a combat mission . Yet long before the scheduled time for return , Donovan would be watching for every speck in the sky . Greg rumbled down the rough metal taxi strip , and one by one the seven members of his flight fell in behind him . The dark brown bombs hanging under each wing looked large and powerful . The pilots ' heads looked ridiculously small . The control tower gave him immediate take-off permission , and the clean roar of the engine that took him off the rough strip spoke well of the skill of Donovan . Greg mission was the last to leave , and as he circled the ships off Tacloban he saw the clouds were dropping down again . To the west , the dark green hills of Leyte were lost in the clouds about halfway up their slopes . Underneath him the sea was a dark and muddied gray . Water splashed against his windshield as he led the flight in and out of showers . The metal strip they had taken off from was coal black against the green jungle around it . He possessed the fighter pilot horror of bad weather and instrument flying , and he wondered , if the ceiling did drop , whether he and the other flights would be able to find their way back in this unfamiliar territory . He shivered in the warm cockpit . The overcast was solid above him . As far as he could see there was no hole to climb through it . They would have to go west through the narrow river valley that separated Leyte from Samar and hope that it didn close in before they returned . Greg pushed the radio button on his throttle . `` Todman , let try to go under this stuff . Stay in close and we l go up the valley . `` Roger , Sweeney , Todman called back , and pulled his four in and slightly above Greg . Greg took the formation wide around three A-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the Gulf . He dropped down to five hundred feet , swinging a little north of the city of Tacloban , and punched into the opening that showed against the mountain . The valley was only a few hundred yards wide with just about room enough for a properly performed hundred-and-eighty-degree turn . It was only a fifteen-minute flight , but before it was through Greg felt himself developing a case of claustrophobia . The ceiling stayed solid above them at about eight hundred feet , and at times the sheer cliffs seemed about to close in . If the other pilots were worried , they did not show it . The formation remained perfect . When the sea was visible ahead of them , the relief was as great as if the sun had come out . He spread the flight out and led them across a point of land and then down the coast . Although they drew light ground fire they saw no signs of activity . Once Todman thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate while Greg covered him . `` Somebody beat us to it ! Todman said over the radio as he came back up in formation . Visibility continued to be limited , and Greg was never able to get above a thousand feet . It was frustrating . His earphones were constantly full of the sounds of enemy contacts made by other flights . He thought once that he identified the somewhat hysterical voice of Fleischman claiming a kill . But Greg area remained as placid as a Florida dawn . Finally , as time began to run out , he headed into Ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that Intelligence had thought might contain Japanese supplies . The low clouds made bombing difficult . There was not enough room to make the usual vertical bomb run . The accuracy was deplorable . One of Greg bombs hung up , and he was miles from the target before he could get rid of it . Only one of the flight scored a direct hit and the rest blew up jungle . With their load of bombs gone , the planes moved swiftly and easily . Greg went up tight against the ceiling and led them back to their pass to home . Mercifully , it was still open . Like a man making a deep dive , Greg took full breath and plunged back into the valley . He was about to make a gas check on his flight when Todman voice broke in : `` Sweeneys ! Three bogies . Twelve o lock level . Greg eyes flicked up from his instrument panel . He saw them , specks against the gray , but closing fast . They were headed straight for each other on a collision course . Friend or enemy ? The same old question . And only a few seconds to answer it . `` Zeros ! Todman said excitedly , and hopefully . And then he thought Todman might be right . His mind flicked through the mental pictures he had from the hours of Aircraft Identification . He narrowed the shape down to two : either a Zero or a U . S . Navy type aircraft . If it were the enemy , tactically his position was correct . Japanese aircraft were strong on maneuverability , American on speed and firepower . His present maximum altitude , up against the overcast , gave him the opportunity to exploit his advantages . But it also made him conspicuous to the enemy , if it was the enemy , and he hadn been spotted already . But the closing aircraft showed no sign of deviating from their original course . In seconds , Greg made his decision . He pushed the radio button . `` Sweeney Blue , hit the deck . Lots of throttle . Todman , you take the one on the left . I l take the middle . Belton , the one on the right . If they e Japs . Let make sure first . Greg had the stick forward and the throttle up before he heard the two `` Rogers . The planes , light with most of the gas burned out , responded beautifully . Greg airspeed indicator was over 350 when he leveled off just above the trees . The opposing aircraft continued to come on . They appeared to be the enemy . Greg wished the Air Corps had continued to camouflage planes . There was , of course , no way for the other planes to get by them . It was a box . But they could turn and escape to the east . Greg pushed the radio button again . `` Todman , drop your second element back . If any of us miss , they can pick up the pieces . Now let make sure they e Japs . Even as he said it , Greg knew they had found the enemy . The shapes were unmistakable and the Rising Suns were showing up , slightly brighter pinpoints in the gray gloom . Greg slapped his hand across the switches that turned on the guns and gun camera and gun sight . The circle with the dot in the center showed up yellow on the reflector glass in front of him . His hands shook . `` Arm your guns , Sweeneys . `` They e Japs . They e Japs , came a high-pitched voice . `` Greg to Sweeney Blue . One pass only . No turns . You l bust your ass in this canyon . That an order . He moved the flights over against one wall . It gave them all a chance to make a high-speed climbing turn attack and a break-away that would not take them into the overcast or force a tight-turn recovery . If the turn was too tight , a barrel roll would bring them out . A hell of an altitude for a barrel roll , but it could be done . Greg slammed his throttle to the fire wall and rammed up the RPM , and the engine responded as if it had been waiting . The clearly identifiable enemy continued on as if no one else were around . `` They haven seen us , Greg yelled to himself over the engine noise . `` They haven seen us . He hit the radio button . `` Now , Sweeneys , now . Let take m home . He hauled back on the stick and felt his cheeks sag . Out of the corner of his eye , he watched his wingman move out a bit and shoot up with him . Perfect , he thought . With the rapid rate of closure , the approach from below , the side , and ahead , there would be only a moment when damage could be done . Just like shooting at a duck while performing a half-gainer from a diving board . He tightened his turn . His nose up . It was going to be dangerous . Eight aircraft in this small box . Please , dear God , make my pilots good , he prayed . He took a lead on the enemy , using a distance of five of the radii in his circular sight and then added another . The enemy did not veer . It did not seem possible that they hadn been spotted . Blind fools . Now ! Greg fingers closed on the stick trigger . The plane rumbled and slowed . Six red lines etched their way into the gray and vanished . As if drawn by a wire the enemy flew into them . Greg tightened his turn until the plane shuddered . Luck was with him . His burst held for a second on the engine section of the plane . The Jap propeller flew off in pieces . A large piece of engine cowling vanished . It was all Greg had time to see . His maneuvering for the shot had placed him near the overcast , almost inverted and heading up into the clouds . His speed was dropping rapidly . If he spun out now , he would join his opponent on the ground . Wingman , stay clear , he prayed . He pushed stick and rudder and entered the overcast on his back . He fought the panic of vertigo . He had no idea which was up and which was down . He held the controls where they had been . Sweat popped out over him and he felt the slick between his palm and the stick grip . His air speed dropped until he thought he would spin out . 
Over the rattling of fenders , humming of tires and chattering of gears there was a charming melody of whispers and tiny giggles . Cool air moving slowly through the open or smashed-out side windows hinted of blooming roadside vegetation , and occasionally a faint fragrance of perfume swirled from the back seat . `` Moriarty , my driver suddenly exclaimed with something so definite , so final in his tone I once more repeated the absurdity , mustering all my latent powers of hypocrisy to sound convinced . We were coming to an intersection , turning right , chuffing to a stop . Forced to realize that this was the end of a very short line I scanned a road marker and discovered what the end of a slightly longer line would be for the old Mexican : Moriarty , New Mexico . `` Gracias . Adios , I said , exhausting my Spanish vocabulary on my host and exchanging one of a scarcely-tapped store of smiles with my host daughters . I waved with discretion and moderation to the vague golden faces fading through rising dust and the distortions of the back window glass . Then I saw the father head slightly turn ; auche rainbow shapes replaced the poignant ovals of gold . Autos whizzed past . White-shirted and conservatively-cravated drivers stared conspicuously toward the eastern horizon and past my supplicating and accusing gaze . Suddenly a treble auto horn tootley-toot-tootled , and , thumbing hopefully , I saw emergent in windshield flash : red lips , streaming silk of blonde hair and -- ah , trembling confusion of hope , apprehension , despair -- the leering face of old Herry . `` Mor-ee-air-teeeee , he shrieked , his white teeth grossly counterpointing those of the glittering blonde . Over the rapidly-diminishing outline of a jump seat piled high with luggage Herry black brushcut was just discernible , near , or enviably near that spot where -- hidden -- more delicately-textured , most beautifully tinted hair must still be streaming back in cool , oh cool wind sweetly perfumed with sagebrush and yucca flowers and engine fumes . Damn his luck . I would have foregone my romantic chances rather than leave a friend sweltering and dusty and -- Well , at least I wouldn have shouted back a taunt . Still nursing anger I listlessly thumbed a car that was slowly approaching , its pre-war chrome nearly blinding me . It was stopping . Just as I straightened up with my duffel bag , I heard : `` Sahjunt Yoorick , meet Mrs . Major J . A . Roebuck . The voice was that of Johnson , tail gunner off another crew . Squeezing a look between Johnson fat jowls and the car frame a handsome and still darkhaired lady inquired `` Y ll drahve ? I nodded . `` Onleh one thiihng , Mrs . Roebuck continued . `` Ahm goin nawth t awn mah husbun in Sante Fe , an y ll maht prefuh the suhthuhn rewt . But Corporal Johnson has alreadeh said it didn make no diffrunce t i-im . I said that it didn make any difference to me either , as far as I knew . How far I knew will shortly become apparent . Let me pass over the trip to Sante Fe with something of the same speed which made Mrs . Roebuck `` wonduh if the wahtahm speed limit ( 35 m . p . h . ) `` is still in ee-faket . I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m . p . h . which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I , Mrs . Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs . Somebody in Sante Fe . When Johnson ejaculated `` Howsabout my buying us all a nice cold Co-cola , Ma m ? Mrs . Roebuck smilingly declined and began suddenly to go on about her son , who was `` onleh a little younguh than you bawhs . Johnson never would have believed she had a son that age . Mrs . Roebuck thought Johnson was a `` sweet bawh t ah lahk thet , but her Herman was getting to be a man , there was no getting around it . `` Just befoh he left foh his academeh we wuh hevin dack-rihs on the vuhranduh , Major Roebuck an Ah , an Huhmun says ' May Ah hev one too ' ? Just as p ite an -- an cohnfidunt , an Ah says ' Uh coahse you cain ' , but he says ' Whah nawt , you ah hevin one ' ? An Ah coudn ansuh him an so Ah said ' Aw right , Ah gay-ess , an his fathuh didn uttuh one wohd an aftuh Huhmun was gone , the majuh laughed an tole me thet he an the bawh had been hevin an occasional drink t ethuh f vuh a yeah , onleh an occasional one , but just the same it was behahn mah back , an Ah doan think thet nahce at all , d ou ? `` No , I don , Johnson said . `` I a good Baptist , and drinking Mrs . Roebuck very kindly let me drive through Sante Fe to a road which would , she said , lead us to Taos and then Raton and `` eventshahleh out of New Mexico . How lightly her `` eventshah-leh passed into the crannies where I was storing dialect material for some vaguely dreamed opus , and how the word would echo . And re-echo . Hardly had Mrs . Roebuck driven off when a rusty pick-up truck , father or grandfather of Senor `` Moriarty Ford sedan , came screeching to a dust-swirling stop , and a brown face appeared , its nose threatened by shards of what had once been the side window . `` Get in , buddies . Get in . The straight , black hair flopped in a vigorous nod , the slender nose plunged toward glass teeth and drew safely back . Johnson unwired the right hand door , whose window was , like the left one , merely loosely-taped fragments of glass , and Johnson wadded himself into a narrow seat made still more narrow by three cases of beer . `` In back , buddy , the driver said to me . Quickly but carefully lowering my duffel bag over the low side-rack , I stepped on the running board ; t flopped down , sprang back up and gouged my shin . The truck was hurtling forward . I seized the rack and made a western-style flying-mount just in time , one of my knees mercifully landing on my duffel bag -- and merely wrecking my camera , I was to discover later -- my other knee landing on the slivery truck floor boards and -- but this is no medical report . I was again in motion and at a speed which belied the truck similarity to Senor X Ford turtle . Maybe I would beat old Herry to Siberia after all . Whatever satisfaction that might offer . Something pulled my leg . I drew back , drawing back my foot for a kick . But it was only Johnson reaching around the wire chicken fencing , which half covered the truck cab glassless rear window . The way his red rubber lips were stretched across his pearly little teeth I thought he was only having a little joke , but , no , he wanted me to bend down from the roar of wind so he could roar something into my ear . `` Wanna beer ? `` Hell , yes , I roared back between dusty lips . Did I want a beer ? Did an anteater want ants ? `` Bueno , amigo . Gracias , I hollered , my first long swallow filling me with confidence and immediately doubling the size of my Spanish vocabulary . At once my ears were drowned by a flow of what I took to be Spanish , but -- the driver white teeth flashing at me , the road wildly veering beyond his glistening hair , beyond his gesticulating bottle -- it could have been the purest Oxford English I was half hearing ; wouldn have known the difference . Johnson was trying to grab the wheel , though the swerve of the truck was throwing him away from it . White teeth suddenly vanishing , the driver slammed the side of his bottle against Johnson ear . We were off the road , gleaming barbed wire pulling taut . I ducked just as the first strand broke somewhere down the line and came whipping over the sideboards . We were in a field , in a tight , screeching turn . Prairie dogs were popping up and popping down . When I fell on my back , I saw a vulture hovering . Just as I got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously . This time no wire came whipping into the truck . We were back on the road . I regained my squatting position behind the truck cab rear window . Johnson left hand was pressed against the side of his head , red cheeks whitening beneath his fingers . `` Tee-wah , the driver cackled , his black eyes glittering behind dull silver chicken fencing . `` That was Tee-wah I was talking . You thought I was a Mexican , didn you , buddy ? I nodded . `` Hell , that all right , buddy , the Indian ( I now guessed ) said . `` Drink your beer . Miraculously , the bottle was still in my hand , foam still geysering over my ( luckily ) waterproof watch . No sooner had I started drinking than the driver started zigzagging the truck . The beer foamed furiously . I drank furiously . A long time . Emptied the bottle . Teeth again flashing back at me , the driver released a deluge of Spanish in which `` amigo appeared every so often like an island in the stormy waves of surrounding sound . I bobbed my head each time it appeared . Suddenly the Spanish became an English in which only one word emerged with clarity and precision , `` son of a bitch , sometimes hyphenated by vicious jabs of a beer bottle into Johnson quivering ribs . A big car was approaching , its chrome teeth grinning . Beyond it the gray road stretched a long , long way . The car was just about to us , its driver fat , solemn face intent on the road ahead , on business , on a family in Sante Fe -- on anything but an old pick-up truck in which two human beings desperately needed rescue . I tossed the bottle . High , so it would only bounce harmlessly but loudly off the car steel roof . Too high . On unoccupied roadway the bottle shattered into a small amber flash . `` Aye-yah-ah-ah ! The Indian was again raising his bottle , but to my astonished relief -- probably only a fraction of Johnson -- the bottle this time went to the Indian lips . Another car was coming , a tiny , dark shape on a far hill . I started looking on the splintery truck bed for a piece of board , a dirt clod -- anything I could throw and with better aim than I had thrown the beer bottle . We were slowing . In the ditch sand was white and soft-looking , only an occasional pebble discernible , faintly gleaming . But Johnson couldn quickly unwire the truck door , and if I escaped , he might suffer . The car was approaching fast . On the truck bed there was nothing smaller than a piece of rusty machinery ; ith more time I could have loosened a small burr or cotter pin -- Suddenly and not a second too soon I thought of the coins in my pocket . There was no time to pick out a penny ; got a coin between my thumb and forefinger , leaned my elbows in a very natural and casual manner on top of the truck cab and flipped my little missile . There was a blur just under my focus of vision , a crash ; he car far windshield panel turned into a silver web with a dark hole in the center . I heard the screech of brakes behind me , an insane burst of laughter beneath me . Looking back I saw a gray-haired man getting out of his halted car and trying to read our license number . `` S-s-sahjunt . Johnson fat hand , another bottle were protruding from the truck cab , and that self-proclaimed Baptist teetotaler , had a bottle at his own lips . Two cars came over a crest , their chrome and glass flashing . The Indian arm whipped sidewise -- there was a flash of amber and froth , the crash of the bottle shattering against the side of the first car . Brakes shrieked behind us . I saw Johnson bottle snatched from his hand , saw it go in a swirl of foam just behind the second car . This time there was no sound of brakes but the shrieking of women . I looked back at pale ovals framed in the elongated oval of the car rear window . `` Drink , you son of a bitch ! I quickly turned around and began to drink . But the Indian was jabbing another bottle toward Johnson . 
I guided her to the divan , turned off the TV , faced her . She sat quietly , staring at me from the wide eyes . And what eyes they were . Big and dark , a melting , golden brown . Eyes like hot honey , eyes that sizzled . Plus flawless skin , smooth brow and cheeks , lips that looked as if you could get a shock from them . It was a disturbingly familiar face , too , but I couldn remember where we had met . I said , `` Do we know each other , Miss ? `` No , I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was -- This time she stopped the rush of words herself . `` I sorry . Shall I go on ? She smiled . It was her first smile . But worth waiting for . `` Sure . I said . `` But one word at a time , O . K . ? She was still hugging the stained coat around her , so I said , `` Relax , let me take your things . Would you like a drink , or coffee ? `` No , thanks . She stood up , pulled the coat from her shoulders and started to slide it off , then let out a high-pitched scream and I let out a low-pitched , wobbling sound like a muffler blowing out . She was wearing nothing beneath the coat . She jerked the coat back on and squeezed it around her again , but not soon enough . There had been a good second or two during which my muffler had been blowing out , and now I was certain I seen her somewhere before . `` I forgot ! She yelped . `` Oh , do forgive me . I sorry ! `` I forgive -- `` That what started all the trouble in the first place . Oh , dear , I all unstrung . `` You and me both , dear . Haven we haven I seen you . I mean , surely we e -- `` You may have seen me on TV , she said . `` I e done several filmed commercials for -- Then it hit me . `` Zing ! I cried . `` Why , yes . And you recognized me ? `` Yes , indeed . In fact , I was watching you on that little seventeen-inch screen when you rang my bell . Man , you rang -- it was in color , too , Miss , and Miss ? What your name , anyway ? Ah , you were splendid . I sat by her on the divan . `` Splendid . In a waterfall and all that . `` That the last one we did . That was a fun one . `` I l bet . It was fun for me , all right . I don mean to pry , but do they hide the swimsuit with the bubbles ? I mean : Is advertising honest ? `` It depends on who does it . I never wear anything at all . It wouldn -- wouldn seem fair , somehow . `` I couldn agree with you more . `` I really do have something important to tell you , Mr . Scott . About the murder . `` Murder ? Oh , yeah , I said . `` Tell me about the murder . She told me . Zing was the creation of two men , Louis Thor and Bill Blake , partners in zing ! , Inc . . They peddled the soap virtually alone , and without much success , until about a year ago , when -- with the addition of `` SX-21 to their secret formula and the inauguration of a high-powered advertising campaign -- sales had soared practically into orbit . Their product had been endorsed by Good Housekeeping , the A . M . A . , and the Veterinary Journal , among other repositories of higher wisdom , and before much longer if you didn have a cake of their soap in the john , even your best friends would think you didn bathe . My lovely caller -- Joyce Holland was her name -- had previously done three filmed commercials for zing , and this evening , the fourth , a super production , had been filmed at the home of Louis Thor . The water in Thor big swimming pool had been covered with a blanket of thick , foamy soapsuds -- fashioned , of course , from zing -- Joyce had dived from the board into the pool , then swirled and cavorted in her luxurious `` bath while cameras rolled . The finished -- and drastically cut -- product would begin with a hazy longshot of Joyce entering the suds , then bursting above the pool surface clad in layers of lavender lather , and I had a hunch this item was going to sell tons and tons of soap ; ven to clean men and boys . Joyce went on , `` When we finished , Lou -- Mr . Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer . He wanted a few stills for magazine ads , he said . Everybody left and I stayed in the pool , then Lou came back alone and leaped into the pool too . And he didn have any clothes on . `` He didn ! `` Yes , he didn . Did , I mean . She paused . `` Did leap into the pool , and didn have anything on . Anyway , it was evident what he had in mind . `` You got away , didn you ? `` Yes . He caught up with me once and grabbed me , but I was all covered with zing -- it very slippery , you know . `` I didn know . I wouldn have the stuff in the house . But I pleased to hear -- `` So I just scooted out of his clutches . I swam like mad , got out of the pool , grabbed my robe , and ran to the car . The keys were still in it , and I was miles away before I remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where I changed . She driven around for a while , Joyce said , then , thinking Louis Thor would have calmed down by that time , she gone back to his home on Bryn Mawr Drive , parked in front , and walked toward the pool . While several yards from it , still concealed by the shrubbery , she seen two men on her left at the pool edge . She went on : `` A man was holding onto Lou , holding him up . Maybe Lou was only unconscious , but right then I thought he must be dead . The man shoved him into the water , then ran past the cabana . There a walk there that goes out to Quebec Drive . I was so scared well , I just ran to my car and came here . `` You know who the other man was ? `` No , I never did see his face . I didn get a good look at him at all , his back was to me , and I was so scared It was just somebody in a man suit . But I sure the other one was Lou . What Joyce wanted me to do was go to Thor house and `` do whatever detectives do , and get her clothes -- and handbag containing her identification . She realized I have to notify the police , but fervently hoped I could avoid mentioning her name . Her impact in the zing commercials had led to her being considered for an excellent part in an upcoming TV series , Underwater Western Eye , a documentary-type show to be sponsored by Oatnut Grits . But if Joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal , the role would probably go to the sponsor wife , Mrs . Oatnut Grits . Or at least not to Joyce . `` And I so want the part , she said . `` The commercials have just been for money , there hasn been any real incentive for me to do them , but in Underwater Western Eye I have a chance to act . I could show what I can do . As far as I was concerned , she had already and had dandily shown what she could do . But I promised Joyce I would mention her name , if at all , only as a last resort . Seeming much relieved , she smiled one of those worth-waiting-for smiles , and I smiled all the way into the bedroom . There I got my Colt Special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went back into the front room . Joyce squirmed a little on the divan . `` I starting to itch , she said . `` Itch ? `` Yes , I still all covered with that soap . I was loaded with suds when I ran away , and I haven had a chance to wash it off . Mmmm , it sure itches . `` You might as well wait here while I gone , so you can use my shower if you like . `` Oh , I love to . I showed her the shower and tub , and she said , smiling , `` If you really don mind , I think I l get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub . That always relaxes me . Doesn it you ? `` Only when I do it . I shook my head . One of my virtues or vices is a sort of three-dimensional imagination complete with sound effects and glorious living color . `` Soak as long as you want , Joyce . It l probably be at least an hour or two before I can check back with you . So you l have everything all to yourself , doggone I looked at my watch . Ten after nine . Time to go , I supposed . `` Well , goodbye , I said . `` Goodbye . You better hurry . `` Oh , you can count on that . She smiled slightly . Softly . Warmly . `` Don hurry too much . I l be soaking for at least half an hour . That was all she said . But suddenly those hot-honey eyes seemed to have everything but swarms of bees in them . However , when there a job to be done , I a monstrosity of grim determination , I like to think . I spun about and clattered through the front room to the door . As I went out , I could hear water pouring in the shower . Hot water . She wouldn be taking a cold shower . Hell , she couldn . Bryn Mawr Drive is only two or three miles from the Spartan , and it took me less than five minutes to get there . But the scene was not the quiet , calm scene I expected . Four cars were parked at the curb , and two of them were police radio cars . Lights blazed in the big house and surrounding grounds . I followed a shrubbery-lined gravel path alongside the house to the pool . Two uniformed officers , a couple of plain-clothesmen I knew , and two other men stood on a gray cement area next to the pool on my left . At the pool far end was the little cabana Joyce had mentioned , and on the water surface floated scattered lavender patches of limp-looking lather . A few yards beyond the group of men , a man nude body lay face down on a patch of thick green dichondra . Lieutenant Rawlins , one of the plain-clothesmen , spotted me and said , `` Hi , Shell , and walked toward me . `` How you hear about this one ? I grinned , but ignored the question . He didn push it ; awlins worked out of Central Homicide and we been friends for years . He filled me in . A call to the police had been placed from here a couple of minutes after nine P . M . , and the first police car had arrived two or three minutes after that -- 10 minutes ago now . Present at the scene -- in addition to the dead man , who was indeed Louis Thor -- had been Thor partner Bill Blake , and Antony Rose , an advertising agency executive who handled the zing account . Neither of them , I understood , had been present at the filming session earlier . `` What were they doing here ? I asked Rawlins . `` They were supposed to meet Thor at nine PM for a conference concerning the ad campaign for their soap , a new angle based on this SX-21 stuff . `` Yeah , I e heard more about SX-21 than space exploration lately . What is the gunk ? `` How would I know ? It a secret . That was the new advertising angle -- something about a Lloyd of London policy to insure the secrecy of the secret ingredient . Actually , only two men know what the formula is , Blake and -- He stopped and looked at Thor body . I said , `` O . K . , so now only Blake knows . How it strike you , foul or fair ? `` Can say yet . Deputy coroner says it looks like he sucked in a big pile of those thick suds and strangled on m . The PM might show he drowned instead , but that what the once-over-lightly gives us . Accident , murder , suicide -- take your pick . `` I l pick murder . Anything else ? `` According to Rose , he arrived here a couple minutes before nine and spotted Thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out . 
Too many people think that the primary purpose of a higher education is to help you make a living ; his is not so , for education offers all kinds of dividends , including how to pull the wool over a husband eyes while you are having an affair with his wife . If it were not for an old professor who made me read the classics I would have been stymied on what to do , and now I understand why they are classics ; hose who wrote them knew people and what made people tick . I worked for my Uncle ( an Uncle by marriage so you will not think this has a mild undercurrent of incest ) who ran one of those antique shops in New Orleans ' Vieux Carre , the old French Quarter . The arrangement I had with him was to work four hours a day . The rest of the time I devoted to painting or to those other activities a young and healthy man just out of college finds interesting . I had a one-room studio which overlooked an ancient courtyard filled with flowers and plants , blooming everlastingly in the southern sun . I had come to New Orleans two years earlier after graduating college , partly because I loved the city and partly because there was quite a noted art colony there . When my Uncle offered me a part-time job which would take care of my normal expenses and give me time to paint I accepted . The arrangement turned out to be excellent . I loved the city and I particularly loved the gaiety and spirit of Mardi Gras . I had seen two of them and we would soon be in another city-wide , joyous celebration with romance in the air ; nd , when you took a walk you never knew what adventure or pair of sparkling eyes were waiting around the next corner . The very faces of the people bore this expectation of fun and pleasure . It was as if they could hardly wait to get into their costumes , cover their faces with masks and go adventuring . My Uncle and I were not too close socially because of the difference in our ages . Sometimes I wondered vaguely what he did about women for my Aunt , by blood , had died some years ago , but neither of us said anything . One Monday morning I saw him approach the store with a woman and introduce me to her as my new Aunt . They were married over the week-end , though he was easily sixty and she could not have been even thirty . She looked more like twenty-five or six . It was really a May and December combination . My new Aunt was perhaps three or four years older than I and it had been a long time since I had seen as gorgeous a woman who oozed sex . There was something about the contour of her face , her smile that was like New Orleans sunshine , the way she held her head , the way she walked -- there was scarcely anything she did which did not fascinate me . Her legs were the full , sexy kind , full bodied like a rare wine and just as tantalizing to the appetite ; he calf was magnificent , the ankle perfect . You must forgive me if I seem to dwell too much on her physical aspects but I am an artist , accustomed to studying the physical body . The true artist is like one of those scientists who , from a single bone can reconstruct an animal entire body . The artist looks at an ankle , a calf , a bosom and , in his mind eye , the clothes drop away and he sees her as she really is . And that is the way I first saw her when my Uncle brought her into his antique store . That she impressed me instantly was obvious ; was aware that when our eyes met we both quickly averted them . I thought I saw a faint surge of color rise to her neck and quickly suffuse her cheeks . True , she was my Aunt , married to an Uncle related to me only by marriage , but why she had married a man twice her age , and more , perhaps , I did not know or much care . She was standing with her back to the glass door . Her form was silhouetted and with the strong light I could see the outlines of her body , a body that an artist or anyone else would have admired . As it is in so many affairs of the heart , a man and a woman meet and something clicks . Something clicked in this instance , but I treated her circumspectly and I felt that she knew it , for we both kept our distance . When she appeared at the store to help out for a few hours even my looking at her was surreptitious lest my Uncle notice it . And then I became aware that she , too , glanced at me surreptitiously . I felt that her eyes were undressing me as if she were a painter and I a nude model . I dismissed these feelings as wishful thinking but I could not get it out of my head that we had a strong physical attraction for one another and we both feared to dwell on it because of our relationship . When our eyes met the air was filled with an unuttered message of `` Me , too . You have probably experienced this . It is nothing you can put your fingers on but the air suddenly fills with a high charge of electricity . Why she married him I do not know . I myself was fond of him but what a young woman half his age saw in him was a mystery to me . He already had that slow pace that comes over the elderly , while she herself had all the signs of one who appreciates the joys of living . Perhaps , with my Uncle , she found a measure of economic security that she needed ; r maybe she liked men old enough to be her father ; ome women with father fixations do . For several weeks we eyed one another almost like sparring partners , and then one day Uncle was slightly indisposed and stayed home ; is bride opened the store . I was waiting in front of it when she showed up and told me of my Uncle indisposition . Even as she was telling me about it I became aware of a give-away flush that suffused her neck and moved upwards to her cheeks , and subconsciously I realized that when she entered the store she did not switch on the lights . The cavernous depth , cluttered with antiques , echoed to her hard heels as she walked directly to the office in the rear and took the seat at his desk . She placed her palms , fingers outspread , on the desk in an odd gesture as if to say , `` Now , what next ? I was aware of a humid look in her eyes that told me the time was opportune . There was little likelihood of any customers walking in at that hour . I was standing beside her , watching the outspread palms and wondering about the old horsehair sofa against the wall on which he sometimes napped . I bent and kissed the still pink neck and suddenly she jumped up , and her two arms encircled me in a bear-like crush . Her mouth , which had been so much in my thoughts , was warm and moist and tender . I heard her murmur , `` We better lock the door . It did not take me long to slip the bolt securely and return to the rear and its couch . When we opened the door again for business and switched on the lights she said : `` He will not always be indisposed . `` I know . I was thinking about that . How will we work it out ? `` I don know , she said . `` You e the man . You figure it out . I e noticed the way you e been looking at me ever since we met . `` I guess we both felt it . I said . `` I guess so , she said . `` But now what ? Even as I said it I realized that an education can be invaluable . `` I know what we can do , I said . `` Tell him I made a pass at you . She raised a protesting hand with a startled air . `` What are you trying to do ? Get thrown out ? If I even hint at it do you think it will matter that you are his nephew -- and not even a blood nephew ? `` I don want to be thrown out and I don think I will . I think I have a way so we can carry on without his suspecting us . `` By telling him you are making passes at me ? She said incredulously . `` When I was in college , I grinned , `` I remember a poem I had to read in my lit class . I don even remember who wrote it but it was one of those 15th or 16th century poets . In those days poems often told a story in verse and those boys had some corkers to tell ; nd now I think we can use the knowledge they passed on to us . Tomorrow Mardi Gras opens officially . A lot of people will roam the streets in costumes and masks , and having a ball . There will be romance and flirtation . If you tell him I made a pass at you he might think you misunderstood something I said or did , so instead of just telling him I made a pass , say I tried to date you and that you agreed so you could prove to him what a louse I really am . We made a rendezvous tomorrow evening at nine on some street near Lake Ponchartrain . And to prove what you tell him about me you suggest that he keep the date instead . You are both the same size . He could use your clothes for a costume and a heavy veil for a mask . When I show up he will know you are a good wife to have told him about it . `` But you -- she began . `` Don worry about me . It will turn out all right . `` I don understand , she insisted . `` Are you trying to cut your throat ? `` No , I chuckled , `` I just beginning to collect dividends on my investment in education . As we expected , on the following day my Uncle was completely recovered and opened the store as usual at 10 in the morning . I felt that he looked at me coldly and appraisingly and seemed to be uncertain what his attitude towards me should be , but he did not say one word which might indicate that he had been told of advances to his wife . I quit work at my usual hour as if this day was no different from other days . I heard subsequently that my Uncle and Aunt had dinner in a nearby restaurant in the French Quarter after which he went home to get into his costume to keep the date . Shortly before nine I drove my jalopy to the street facing the Lake and parked the car in shadows far enough away from the rendezvous corner but near enough to keep the corner in clear view . A few minutes later I saw my Uncle car drive up and a woman figure emerge and walk to the corner . I must say the figure was well made up . If it were not that I knew who it was I could have mistaken it for my Aunt so well did her clothes fit him . In one hand he gripped firmly a parasol though there had been no indication of rain . I suspected why he brought it along . In the half darkness I approached cautiously , making sure he did not see me . He was looking out on the dark waters of the Lake when I came upon him and without wasting words I smacked him hard across the face . `` You cheap bitch ! I exclaimed . `` You cheap , no good , two-timing bitch ! You get a good , loyal husband -- smack ! -- and you fall for a pass by his own nephew ! You should -- smack ! -- be ashamed of yourself . 
He had better write a postcard to Walter . He opened the myth book again and there ( along the margin next to Robert Graves ' imaginative interpretation of the creation of the Dactyls from Rhea fingertips ) were the names of four Munich bars and Meredith Wilder address . The bars were marked as Walter had marked them in a small black book kept in a nearly secret drawer . The code , which had probably something to do with sex or some other interest , Nicolas was determined to find out and put to use . A card to Walter would get him an introduction to this Meredith , and that might be good for something . Nicolas called on his muse , a line came back : `` Squaresville , man , and all the palazzos are crummy Palasts . That ought to draw a laugh , Nicolas reasoned , as he stored the line away on the wax tape that was his mind . And indeed , his postcard did draw from Walter a letter recommending his friend , the poet Nicolas Manas , to his friend Meredith Wilder . Five days later , on receiving it , Meredith sat drumming his dactyls on his writing table . Dammit ! He inwardly cried . His hand was large and square and heavily tanned . The voice crying in him was the voice of guilt . His four weeks in Italy had turned into nearer three months . He had returned to the pension a week ago . Now , he was just in the late poems of Holderlin and therefore had most of the nineteenth century before him -- plus next semester class preparation . He was determined to spend an industrious summer . Well , maybe Manas wouldn call . Meredith fingers slowed and stopped over a line before him : Sie lacheln , die Schwarzen Hexen . The menace of Manas gradually faded as Meredith asked himself should he translate it , ' How the dark fates laughed ' ? Or , more rhythmically , ' The swarthy witches are laughing ' ? And he missed the point that the swarthy witches might be laughing at him for hoping to escape Nicolas Manas . But Nicolas , too , was being interrupted , that morning . Not by the 11 : 00 sun which had spread a warmth around his spot of grass in the English Gardens and sent him off to sleep ; ut by a blond girl in a sweater and skirt who stood a few yards off and tenderly regarded him . Should she wake him ? She didn have the heart . Her heart , her maternal feeling , in fact her being was too busy expressing itself , as quietly thrilled by this sight of her Nicolas curled asleep under a blanket , in a park like a scene from Poussin . She was just not able to break the spell . ( Would she have been able to had she known that the blanket belonged to a young ballet dancer Nicolas had found his first night in one of Walter marked bars ? Nicolas : `` Look , Nicolas doesn go to bed with boys -- no sex , see ? So if all these beers was to get me in bed , man , you just spent a lot of money . Ballet dancer : Protests , tears , and `` take what you want , Nicolas , I am a dancer , you are a poet , it is all beautiful . To this meek conjugation Nicolas had replied , `` O . K . I can use this blanket . And when you get off this job tonight , well , you can gimme something to eat . And , as a matter of fact , Nicolas had slept in the park only part of one night , when he discovered that Munich early mornings even in summer are laden with dew . He had always known how to find a bed , and on his own terms . He used the blanket for late morning naps when hosts of the night had gone off to jobs and proved reluctant to leave him in their small rooms with their few possessions . Mary Jane Lerner knew none of this . ) Her Nicolas lay curled in the sun like a fawn , black hair falling over his eyes . She was telling herself that this might just be her reward at the end of a long meaningful search for truth . This was surely a reunion in art , it was all that poetry promised . That long night with Nicolas and marijuana in Venice had opened her eyes . His advice , his voice saying his poems , the fact that he had not so much as touched her -- on the contrary , he had put his head back and she had stroked his hair -- this was all new . Her eyes had opened , she had caught a glimpse of a new faith . The next day he was gone . Mary Jane might not be the most intelligent woman , but she was one of the most determined . Even so , it took her several days to force Walter to tell her Nicolas whereabouts . Packing a small suitcase , informing her husband whom she found in Harry Bar that she was taking a train to Germany to get away for a while , patting his arm , refusing a drink , getting on the train -- all this had only taken her two hours . She had arrived this morning and come straight to the English Gardens . `` Dear girl , Walter had finally said , `` he writes me that he is sleeping in the English Gardens . `` How like him ! Mary Jane had smilingly said . `` His address , Walter added , `` is that great foundling home , the American Express . And I will greatly appreciate it if you will not tell your husband . For the last half hour Mary Jane had criss-crossed half the length of the Gardens and , at last , come upon her knight . His presence there , asleep in the grass , confirmed all that Mary Jane believed it was in his power to teach her : freedom from the tedium of needs such as hotels , the meaning of nature , how to live , simply , with the angels . She set down her suitcase . Should she wake him ? No . Smiling , she sat down on the suitcase and waited and watched . The sun grew hotter as it approached the midday . Nicolas was dreaming he had his head pressed against the dashboard of a speeding car . He began sweating . In his dream he cried , `` Slow down , for Chrissake ! He half woke and rolled over with his face in the cooler grass . His nose was tickled . He sneezed . He blew his nose expertly between his fingers . He spit . He half sat up and scratched at the hair on his forehead and then , more vigorously , between his legs . He belched , he stretched . Mary Jane got up , quietly , and walked away . Twenty minutes later she was at the desk of the Grafin pension , her tears dried , signing a hotel form and asking for a bath . Mary Jane belonged to a world acquainted with small attractive hotels and pensions in all the major and minor cities . She had retreated to this world . The Grafin , who was charmed by her , told her , `` Your sister who was here two years ago has quite dark hair . Families are very interesting . Nevertheless , there is no bath . But a young American has a bath next to his room and I shall ask him if you might use it this once . And then we shall see . ( The Grafin was partial to the word shall . ) Meredith was irritated when the Grafin knocked at his door and told him , `` She is a great beauty ! Shall we allow her not to have a bath ? Actually , she is a sad beauty , I believe . You shall see her at dinner . Rather erotically he listened to the bath water running ; hen it stopped he began busily typing , sitting up in a virtuous way . Before dinner , he shaved for the second time that day . A thing he did not like doing , generally . Singing into the mirror and his interested eyes , he was pleased to note , when he stripped for his own bath , that he still had the best part of his Italian sun tan . He flexed his muscles for several minutes , got into the tub , and then grew self-conscious of splashing as he washed . In the small gallery used as the guests ' dining room , Meredith sat down at his place and , as always , began teasing the young waitress . He was asking had it been she who left the love note in his sheets ( she also served as maid ) when he saw the Grafin followed by a stately blond girl approaching his table . It would be literary license calculated to glamorize life to say that he , oh , dropped his napkin , so startled was he by Mary Jane beauty . Yet he did drop his badinage with the ordinary country girl as much in deference to the Grafin as acknowledgement that here , indeed , was something special . Mary Jane had made very little effort . Above a dark green skirt she wore a pale green cashmere sweater with , as he soon perceived , no brassiere beneath . Her white blond hair was clean and brushed long straight down to her shoulders . Perhaps her eyes were larger and more of a summer blue for all they had seen and wept that day . She had touched her face , truly a noble and pure face , only with a lip salve which made her lips glisten but no redder than usual . The result was grace and modesty . As she was rather tired this evening , her simple `` Thank you for the use of your bath -- when she sat down opposite him -- spoken in a low voice , came across with coolnesses of intelligence and control . Meredith began falling in love . Soup : `` Only this morning ; eal cutlets : `` Oh , I couldn possibly eat all this ! ; ine : `` Then you were typing poems this afternoon ? ; ruit compote : `` If you think I would understand it ; smile . `` What a beautiful room . Like as if it were built of books . Having opened the windows onto the terrace , lit the fire , translated the motto , Meredith grinned and took down a little triplet of books bound together in old calfskin . Opening these he brought out a schnapps bottle and small gold thimble-sized glasses hidden inside it . `` I think the maids tipple in the afternoon . `` Those sweet girls ? Oh you e joking . It tastes a little like poppyseed . What its name ? Steinhager She whispered Steinhager to herself , several times , memorizing it . `` Would you first read the poem aloud to me and then let me read it to myself ? Meredith voice was always deep , with rough bass notes in it ; n reading , on platforms , even in the large auditorium of the Y . M . H . A . , Poetry Center nights , his voice was intimate , thoughtful , and a trifle shy . His new poem , a love poem , told of a young husband leading his wife upstairs to the bedroom when the lights in the house have failed . The husband points the steps out with his flashlight : `` Its white stare filling her pale eyes To the blind brim with appetite , Bleaching her hands that grazed my thighs And sent us from the table in surprise To let the dishes soak all night , ( Mary Jane asked herself if Meredith was blushing at this line , or was it the fire ? ) But he read on . In the bedroom before the husband and wife find their way to the bed , the lights go on : `` In dull domestic radiance I watch her staring face , still blind , Start wincing in obedience To dirty waters , counters , pots and pans , Waiting below stairs , in her mind . Mary Jane took the page from him and began reading it , moving her lips with the words . `` Oh , it that myth , about Orpheus and What is her name ? I can never pronounce it . She repeated `` Eurydice . The third time rather urgently . But with her hand poem again . She raised her face and nodded , `` It sweet , and very sad . They discussed the way people never tell each other the things on their minds . They finished the small bottle of Steinhager . She confessed she was unhappy , he asked was it her husband ? She began to explain , `` There was this poet , in Italy He interrupted , `` Please don judge all poets . They smiled . At her door , two or three hours later , Mary Jane whispered , `` Everyone is asleep . Kissing her he whispered , several times , `` Eurydice . The third time rather urgently . But with her hand softly on his cheek for a last moment , she closed the door and he went back down the hall and into his bed excited , expectant , and finally faintly grinning with the feel of her hand against his mouth . 
They neither liked nor disliked the Old Man . To them he could have been the broken bell in the church tower which rang before and after Mass , and at noon , and at six each evening -- its tone , repetitive , monotonous , never breaking the boredom of the streets . The Old Man was unimportant . Yet if he were not there , they would have missed him , as they would have missed the sounds of bees buzzing against the screen door in early June ; r the smell of thick tomato paste -- the ripe smell that was both sweet and sour -- rising up from aluminum trays wrapped in fly-dotted cheesecloth . Or the surging whirling sounds of bats at night , when their black bodies dived into the blackness above and below the amber street lights . Or the bay of female dogs in heat . They never called him by name , although he had one . Filippo Rossi , that what he was called in the old country ; ut here he was just Signore or the Old Man . But this was not unusual , because youth in these quarters was always pushed at a distance from its elders . Youth obeyed when commanded . It went to church on Sunday and one Saturday a month went to confession . But youth asked nothing of its parents -- not a touch of the hand or a kiss given in passing . The only thing unusual about the Old Man had long since happened . But the past was dead here as the present was dead . Once the Old Man had had a wife . And once she , too , ignored him . With a tiny fur-piece wrapped around her shoulders , she wiggled her satin-covered buttocks down the street before him and didn stop . In one hand she clutched a hundred dollar bill and in the other a straw suitcase . The way she strutted down the street , the Old Man would have been blind not to have noticed both . Without looking at him , without looking at anything except Drexel Street directly in front of her , she climbed up into one of those orange streetcars , rode away in it , and never came back . `` But she shouldn have come here in the first place , the women had said . `` No , no . Not that one . She thought she was bigger than we are because she came from Torino . `` Eh , Torino ! She gave herself fancy airs ! Just because she had a part on the stage in the old country , she thought she could carry her head higher than ours . They had slapped their thighs . `` It not for making pretty speeches about Dante those actresses get paid so good . `` Henh ! Calloused fingers , caressed only by the smoothness of polished rosaries , had swayed excitedly beneath puckered chins where tiny black hairs sprouted , never to be tweezed away . Mauve-colored mouths that had never known anything sweeter than the taste of new wine and the passion of man tongue had not smiled , but had condemned again and again . `` Puttana ! But if the Old Man even thought about his wife now , nobody cared a fig . It was enough for people to know that at one time he had looked down the street at the fleshy suppleness of a woman he had consumed -- watching her become thinner and thinner in the distance , as thin as the seams on her stockings , and still thinner . His voice had not commanded her to stop . It had not questioned why . The women said they had seen him wave an exhausted farewell ; ut he might have been shooing away the fleas that hopped from his yellow dog onto him . ( He was never without that dog . ) And his eyes -- those miniature sundials of variegated yellow -- had not altered their expression or direction . The Old Man very soul could have left him and flown down that street , but he wouldn have had anyone know it . Perhaps he had known then where that hundred dollar bill had come from and where it was taking his wife . But when he called for his withered , wrinkled sister Rose to care for him and the children , had he guessed that all he would remember of his woman was the memory of her climbing into that streetcar ? There seemed to be a contemptuous purpose in the way he sat there with his eyes glued to Drexel Street and his back in opposition to the church behind him . For all he saw or cared to see , this could have been a town in Italy , not the outskirts of Philadelphia . It could have been Bari or Chieti for the way it smelled . What did it matter to him that the park at the foot of Ash Road stretched beneath elevated trains that roared from the stucco station into the city center at half-hour intervals ? Or that the tiny creek spun its silent course toward the Schuylkill ? This place was hatred to him , just as hatred was his only companion in his aloneness . To him they were one and the same . Sameness for the Old Man was framed in by a wall of ginkgo trees which divided these quarters from the city . Sameness lined the streets with two-story houses the color of ash . It slashed the sloping manure-scented lawns with concrete steps which climbed upward to white wooden porches . It swayed with the wicker swings and screeched with the rusted hinges of screen doors . Even the stable-garage , which housed nothing now but the scent of rot , had a lawn before it . And the coffee shop on Drexel Street , where the men spent their evenings and Sundays playing cards , had a rose hedge beneath its window . The hedge reeked of coffee dregs thrown against it . Only one house on the street had no lawn before it . It squatted low and square upon the sidewalk with a heavy iron grating supporting a glass facade . That was Bartoli shop . Above it , from a second-story showroom , wooden angels surveyed the neighborhood . Did the Old Man remember them there ? Yet everywhere else sameness was stucco and wood in square blocks -- like fortresses perched against the slant of the hill , rising with the hill to the top where the church was and beyond that to the cemetery . Only paved alleyways tunneled through the walls of those fortresses into the mysterious core of intimacy behind the houses where backyards owned no fences , where one man property blended with the next to form courtyards in which no one knew privacy . Love and hatred and fear were one here , shaded only by fig trees and grape vines . And the forked tongue of gossip licked its sinister way from back porch to back porch . The Old Man silently fed upon these streets . They kept him alive , waiting . Waiting for what and for whom , only he could tell and would not . It was as though he had made a pact with the devil himself , but it was not yet time to pay the price . He was holding out for something . He was determined to hold out . The Old Man son threw himself down , belly first , upon a concrete step , taking in the coolness of it , and dreaming of the day he would be rich . At fifteen he didn care that he had no mother , that he couldn remember her face or her touch ; either did he care that Aunt Rose provided for him . He was named Pompeii as a tribute to his heritage , and he couldn have cared less about that either . To him life was a restless boredom that began with the rising sun and ended only with sleep . When he would be a man , he would be a rich man . He would not be like the `` rich Americans who lived in white-columned houses on the other side of the park . He would not ride the eight-thirty local to the city each morning . He would not carry a brief case . Nor would he work at all . He would square his shoulders and carry a cane before each step . He would sit inside the coffee shop and pound a gloved fist upon the table and a girl would hear him and come running , bowing with her running , calling out in her bowing , `` At your service . He would order her to bring coffee , and would take from his vest pocket a thin black pipe which he would stuff -- he would not remove his gloves -- and light and smoke . He could do that when he would be a man . `` Hey , Laura ! He called to his sister on the porch above the steps . She was only ten months older than he . `` Laura , what would you say if I smoked a pipe ? Laura did not answer him . She leaned unconcerned against the broken porch fence , brushing and drying her wet , gilded hair in the sun . One lithe leg straddled the railing and swung loosely before the creaking , torn pales . Her tanned foot , whose arch swept high and white , pointed artfully toward tapering toes -- toes like fingers , whose tips glowed white . All the while she sat there , her sinewy arms swirled before her chest . Her face showed no sign of having heard Pompeii . It was a face that had lost its childlike softness and was beginning to fold within its fragile features a harshness that belied the lyric lines of its contours . The eyes , blue and always somewhat downcast , possessed a sullen quality . Even though the boy could not see them , he knew they were clouded by distance . He was never sure they fully took him in . Pompeii called again , `` Laura ! But the only answer that reached him was the screeching of the porch rail from her leg moving against it . `` She in a mood , he thought `` There not a month she doesn get herself in a mood . Well , what did that matter when the sun was shining and there were dreams to dream about ? And as for his pipe , if he wanted to smoke one , nobody would stop him . Not even Laura . Suddenly he was interrupted in his daydreaming by a warm wetness lapping against his chin , and his eyes opened wide and long at the sight of a goat claret tongue , feasting against the salt taste of him . Above the tongue , an aged yellow eye , sallow and time-cast , encrusted within a sphere of marbleized pink skin , stared unfalteringly at him . `` Christ sake , goat , git ! But the goat would not . `` You e boiling milk , ain you ? Soothing it with his hand , knowing the whiskered jowls and the swollen smoothness of teats that wrinkled expectantly to his touch . Pompeii rolled over . His head undulated gradually , covering space , to come straining beneath the taut belly within the warmth of those teats . With his mouth opened wide , he squirted the warm white milk against the roof of his mouth and his tongue savored the light , earthy taste of it . The boy fingers and mouth operated with the skilled unity of a bagpipe player , pressing and pulling , delighting in what he did . Above him slid the evasive shadow of a storm cloud . Its form was a heavy figure in a fluttering soutane . But the boy could see only the goat belly . The Old Man near the corner let the shadow pass over him , sensing something portentous in it . He knew it was there , knew also what it was about , but he wouldn raise a finger except to smooth his yellow dog back . There would be time enough , perhaps the Old Man reassured himself , to pay the devil his due . Time enough to give up his soul . In the meantime , six sandals , stained an ocher , the same color as Pompeii shaved hair , edged up close to him . The clapping they made on the concrete interrupted him in the ecstatic pleasure he knew , so that he quickly released his hold on the goat and pretended to be examining its haunches for ticks . He knew at a glance that the biggest sandals belonged to Niobe , the neatest ones to Concetta , and the laced ones to Romeo , Concetta idiot brother . Pompeii expected Romeo small body to sink closer and closer to the ground . He expected Concetta thin hand to reach down to grasp the boy , and her shrill , impetuous voice to sound against the rotundity of his disfigured flesh that was never sure of hearing anything . 
People came in and out all evening to see the baby and hold it . The room filled with smoke , and Maggie head throbbed with excitement and fatigue , but Stuart had such a happy , earnest look of proud possession on his face that Maggie couldn bear to do anything to quench it . Little Anne rapidly outdistanced her mother in recovery . In two months she became a fat highly social baby , with a fuzz of flaxen hair all over her head . She stopped flying into rages and started digesting her food ; he developed a peaches and cream complexion and a sunny disposition , and she asked for nothing more of life than that she be kept dry and comfortable and fed huge amounts of food at stated intervals and be carried to where she could watch activity going on around her . She was so heavy that Maggie arms shook from lifting her and taking care of her . Maggie couldn seem to get her strength back or catch up with herself with all she had to do : there was the big basket of clothes to be coaxed through the rackety old washer and lugged out and lugged back ; here was the daily round of household chores in which Maggie insisted on participating . Worry had a great deal to do with it ; tuart had been laid off at the produce company and had to go back to sitting in his father office , taking what salary his father could hand out to him . Mr . Clifton would have preferred death and bankruptcy to having his son stay with his wife people without contributing to his and his family upkeep , and besides that there were the things that had to be bought for the baby , milk and orange juice and vitamins and soap , just plain soap . Maggie and Stuart pored over figures every night , trying to find how they could squeeze out a few pennies more . In desperation Maggie consulted Eugenia one afternoon : `` Do you think you could find me something I could do here at home to make some money , so I could still watch the baby and do the rest of the things ? `` It seems to me you have enough to do as it is , Eugenia said . She had been watching Maggie go from the washing machine to the baby to the stove and back again . `` I have plenty of odd moments when I could be doing something , Maggie said . `` It would make me feel a lot better , but the Woman Exchange isn taking baked goods any more and I can leave the baby with Grandma because she isn strong enough and the baby too young to be put in a nursery . `` I should think so , Eugenia said . `` For one thing you can stop keeping that child in starched dresses and changed from the skin out nineteen times a day . `` She so beautiful , and I do like to keep her looking nice . Maggie said . She picked up the baby and nuzzled her fat warm little neck . `` She l be just as beautiful in something that doesn have to be ironed , Eugenia said . `` Evadna Mae Evans said she didn put a thing on her child but a flannel wrapper until it was nine months old . `` Evadna Mae Evans got all her baby clothes from Best Liliputian Bazaar in New York , and I sick and tired of hearing about Evadna Mae Evans . `` Well now , Maggie , you don have to snap at me , Eugenia said . `` I just thinking of a way for you to be sensible . `` I sorry . I do seem to snap at everybody these days , but I would like to think of a way to make a little extra money . `` Well , let see . Let make a list of your assets . Maggie started laughing , and she laughed so hard she couldn stop , and she kept on laughing while she lugged the clothes out to the yard to hang them up while the sun was still shining . When she came back Eugenia was sitting at the kitchen table with a pencil and envelope jotting down words and figures . `` I have here that you could run a nursery of your own for working mothers , Eugenia said . `` We could put up cribs on the second floor sleeping porch and turn the front bedroom into a playroom where it nice and sunny , but of course it would entail quite a bit of running up and down stairs and Chris said you were to be careful about that . `` What else ? `` You might set up a dress shop in the living room . `` Every woman in the block has tried that . `` What about a tea room , then ? You could set up tables in the front room and serve salads and your baked beans and brown bread and Grandma could dress like a gypsy and tell fortunes . `` It too elaborate . And Grandma isn strong enough to take on something like that , and to tell you the truth neither am I . Eugenia sighed . She said , `` Well , those are the really interesting things , but if you don like any of those I can turn over some of my extra typing jobs to you , if you think you can type well enough . `` Oh , I sure I could do that , Maggie said . `` But it really wouldn be fair , taking your jobs away from you . `` Don worry , I can get plenty more , Eugenia said , wondering where in the world she could . Maggie was looking much happier already , clearing a space on the table and chattering about how she could put up a typewriter right there , and be brushing up on her typing so Eugenia wouldn be ashamed of it . `` And then whenever I have a minute I can be working at it , and keep an eye on the baby and the stove at the same time . And I can go back to my contests and be thinking while I doing the washing . `` What are you going to do with your feet so you don waste anything ? Maggie laughed . She said , `` Oh Eugenia , I wish `` What ? `` I wish I had three wishes , Maggie said . `` All of them for you . It grew bitterly cold toward the end of November , contributing to the miseries of countless numbers of people . The temperature dropped to twenty below at night and stood at zero during the days . The cold settled like a tangible pall over the Mile High City , locking it in an icy grip that harshened its outlines and altered its physical appearance ; t had a look of grim stark realism , resembling other cities whose habitual climate was cold , instead of the sprawling bumptious open-handed greedy Western city basking in eternal sunshine at the foot of mountains stored with endless riches and resources . The jobless huddled in the streets outside of employment offices , outside newspaper buildings , in parks , in relief lines , outside government agencies . There weren facilities to take care of them ; here never had been a need felt for such facilities . That kind of poverty was regarded as the exclusive property of the East , which created depressions with their stock markets and their congested populations and their greedy centralization of industries , protected by discriminatory freight rates . The East was popularly supposed to have got the country into war and into depression , dragging the west along ; nd now the East was creating government agencies for which the West doubtless would have to pay . The government offices were being opened but they weren being opened fast enough and meanwhile the cold penetrated everything . Shivering , people talked and argued ; ll this government spending would have to be paid for somehow , but on the other hand desperate circumstances called for desperate remedies and something had to be done . Something had to be done ; t was the theme song of millions of American people , their personal problems no less urgent than those of the government . Something had to be done . The Abernathys said it to each other a dozen times a day . Something had to be done about the furnace , the fuel bills , the washing machine , the doctor and dentist bills , about making money stretch for food , for the mortgage , for taxes , for shoes , for half soles , for overshoes , for clothes , for the new leaks in the roof , for gas and light bills ; bout keeping warm , about keeping well , about meeting the minor emergencies that came up once , twice , fifty times a day . Just dropping the baby bottle and breaking it became a catastrophe , and Stuart wore out his shoes so fast that he was termed a major disaster . The Abernathy furnace consumed fuel like a giant ravenous maw that had to be appeased by hurling tons of coal into its evil red depths , and no matter how much coal they put in the house remained cold . Cold came in the innumerable cracks that seemed to have sprung up , under doors , around loosened window frames , from the sleeping porches , the attic , from the widened cracks between shingles on the roof . Presently they had to give up running the furnace at full capacity and depend on the old coal range in the kitchen , which had never been removed when the new gas range was installed , and the fireplaces and an electric heater in Grandma room . It was so cold and so wretched that a sort of desperate gaiety infected all of them , like people stormbound or shipwrecked or caught in some other freak of circumstance so that time stood still and minor anxieties fell away and the only important thing was to cling together and survive . The pipes burst and they all laughed and stood in ice water to their ankles while they swabbed the bathrooms . They lived mainly in the kitchen ; hey moved Maggie bed and the baby basket there , and the rest of them undressed by the stove and ran groaning and shivering to the upper polar regions and plunged into icy beds . Grandma said it was just like the early mining camp days , and it was the way people ought to live , only she was getting too old to take the pleasure from it that she used to . `` You said a mouthful , Eugenia said grimly . Eugenia hated being cold worse than anything , and she was beginning to find the joys of poverty wearing thin . She said to Maggie that it was one thing to meet an emergency and another to wallow in it , and it was beginning to look at if this one was going to last forever . `` Plenty of people are poor all their lives . `` Plenty of people haven our brains and talent . `` I know you when you start talking about brains and talent , Maggie said . `` You e working up to something , and if you don watch out you l ruin your whole life one of these days just to prove that the Abernathy family is superior to everything , even a depression . `` The only thing that worries me is how I going to prove it , Eugenia said . They begged Grandma to let them put a bed in the kitchen for her , but Grandma said she was getting too old to sleep in strange beds and be seen with her teeth out , and that she hoped to die in privacy like a Christian and if the Lord willed it to be of pneumonia than it would have to be that way . She didn want to be the only one with a stove in her room , especially as her life span was nearly run out anyway , and she insisted that Hope have the heater . Hope wouldn hear of it , and she took the heater back to Grandma room , and Grandma took it back to Hope room , and the two of them dragged it back and forth until Grandma tipped it over and almost set her bedspread on fire . She said that proved she wasn to be trusted with a fire in her room , and she could be burned to a crisp without anybody knowing it . Eugenia suspected her of deliberately overturning the heater because she was getting tired of dragging it back and forth and still wanted her own way , but Hope said if Grandma wouldn have the heater nobody would have it , so Grandma had to give in . 
`` Thrifty of her to use it up . Unusual in a case like this , but -- `` You can joke ! Didn you read it ? She married that tenant ! `` I read it , yes . This ought to simplify Tolley life . Laban had more to say . Tolley had gone to live in California . He mentioned it , himself , at church and everybody seemed to have the idea that Tolley had left because Jenny had jilted him for Roy Robards . `` It was plain as the nose on your face that they e laughing about it , Mamma . Zion stayed to get my pin , but it l be a cold day in June when I go back . `` We will both go back , Laban ! Kizzie turned to go inside . `` Let me stay and take the pictures you wanted , Mamma . The sun right -- `` Pictures ? She swung around . `` What pictures ? `` In Brace room ! You told me to bring my camera . I not going back -- `` Indeed you are ! Why should I want pictures of an empty room now ? Tolley had no idea of marrying that sneaky little Jenny ! This -- trip of his had nothing to do with her consorting with tenants , and I am going to see that everybody at Mt . Pleasant understands that simple fact . Wait for me , Laban , I l be dressed in half a second ! Frank followed her into the bedroom , hooked her dress up the back . `` Hurry , Frank ! They e not going to laugh at the Fairbrothers and Labans very long ! Tolley going is my fault . I drove him away . You know it and I l tell everybody exactly how it happened . She was so beautiful , so valiant , so pitiable . He kissed her . `` Make your confession to God , Kizzie dear , not to the congregation . `` I l decide that when I get there . I was so cruel to Tolley , so unfair . But I l be fair now ! He is coming back , isn he , Frank ? Yes , oh yes . What else was there to say ? Returning to the log-house he found some favorite lines from Jonathan Swift on his lips : `` Under the window in stormy weather I marry this man and woman together . Let none but Him who rules the thunder Put this man and woman asunder . Absolution for his lie ? He questioned God taking time to telegraph the message , but he felt better about Kizzie , and he took the sealed envelope from its pigeonhole , wondering why he had preserved it . If he died before she did , she would never be unable to resist opening it . In any case he would be thrusting a burden on his remaining sons , making them parties to a deception peculiarly his own . It was simply his necessity to confess which had made him write and keep this thing . `` You e told God , Frank , he said . `` Why lacerate the -- congregation ? Reaching for an old clay pot , relic of pioneer days , he tore the envelope in pieces , dropping them into it , touching the little pyre to flame , watching it curl , the red sealing wax melting and bubbling in the feathery ash . Surely now his beloved son could rest in peace . `` ' And let me go , for the night gathers me , and in the night shall no man gather fruit ' . A beautiful and haunting line , a subtle genius , Swinburne , difficult not to envy a gifted man , and perhaps he did . But there were great satisfactions , even for a small man . Beyond his window were the greening trees , new spring , eternal hope , eternal life . There lay Grand Fair Quinzaine , his own young parents ' graves , but new life and promise for his sons , grandsons . He poured his thimble of wine for the toast he made so often . `` To absent loved ones . But this last time he drank not to Brace but `` To Tolley ! Mr . Robards -- Jenny was the only person she knew of in the Mt . Pleasant neighborhood who called him that -- was kind but too easygoing . It didn bother him for everybody from the blacksmith to the preacher to say , `` Howdy , Miss Jenny , adding a careless `` Roy , but it did her . He could put a stop to it , she told him again and again . Simply call Mr . Whipsnade Oscar , and Dr . Dunne P . GA , and C n Major Frank . Mr . Robards laughed , said he feel a damn fool , plain-out couldn do that even to please her . `` You could try . And if I ever hear you say ' Mist Laban ' again I l scream . And don tell me you didn at church Sunday . I heard you ! He really hadn meant to , he assured her , but it was plain to her that the importance of these small things was lost on Mr . Robards . How strange it was that he could give her this handsome house and carte blanche as to its beautiful furnishings , and fail her in -- spiritual ways . Another weakness -- far more irritating than his manner of speaking , which he made only token effort to change -- was his devotion to that old horse of Tolley . Her horse , rather . But Mr . Robards ' now , oh my yes , indeed , yes ! He called her `` the Mare much as Mrs . Whipsnade spoke of `` the Queen , God bless her . He , with fifteen or twenty horses or mares or geldings or what-nots out there in the barn , was reverent only of `` the Mare , `` the Racin ' Mare , the revolting Gunny . For the first few months of their marriage she had tried to be nice about Gunny , going out with him to watch this pearl without price stamp imperiously around in her stall . And what had happened ? Gunny invariably tried to bite her . Nerves , Mr . Robards said , just a nip anyway . `` Stand back , Miss Jen , she oneasy of your scarf . Never , `` Quit that , you sor devil ! Never concern for his wife nerves , or the danger that the curled lip and big teeth might mark their own dear baby due in January . She musn annoy Gunny whose foal was due then too ! Listening for hours to his laments that the war and `` Mist Fair poverty afterwards had robbed the mare of many a racing triumph , and to his predictions of greatness for the procession of foals to come , Jenny could look forward to years of conflict with an animal who disliked her intensely and showed it . Gunny symbolized so much that was unpleasant -- Tolley , the indifference with which the Fairbrothers and indeed the whole neighborhood now treated her and which she would die rather than acknowledge to her husband , his lack of understanding and sympathy in her present condition , her disgusting swollen stomach . Human birth was no novelty to Mr . Robards . Tillie was a fine midwife and could get here quick , he suggested . Jenny aversion to having Dr . Dunne , a former admirer , seemed silly to him , but he would humor her , get anybody she wanted , the best never being too good for her . The chances were against his being here to humor her when her time came , she was sure . He would be in the barn , or riding for the veterinarian ! Night after night he stayed with Gunny in the dead of winter , rubbing her with quarts of expensive liniment , fussing over her bran mash as the cook did over charlotte russe , tracking manure on the pretty new carpet when he did come to the house . Yet when the dear baby came , he had Tillie over here in a jiffy , and was as attentive and sweet and worried and happy when it was all over as any husband could have been . Jenny wished now that she had had Dr . Dunne , feeling that somehow he wouldn have allowed the dear baby to turn into triplets . There was something not nice about triplets , though their father seemed pleased , showing no disappointment that they hadn been the son he wanted , saying , `` You don see triplets trippin ' down the pike ever ' day , Miss Jen , hon . Rhyme m up cute -- Arcilla , Flotilla Edmonia for her mother , she said firmly , Jennifer , for herself , and -- `` Kezziah , for Miss Kizzie , he suggested . `` She was mighty good to you past times , an ' this l fetch her . Now she must be thinking of a boy-name , something special . Just wait till she saw the Mare foal . Handsomest colt in all Kentucky . Strong too , up on his legs when he was an hour old . What about Royal Robards ? `` Why don you name him Jesus Christ ! She burst into tears . Roy was deeply distressed . He had no idea how unhappy his sweet peach had been . Of course she wasn herself right now , but as her strength came back her spirits didn seem to rise with it . He had a good idea why not . Those elegant `` At Home cards she sent out , now she could wear her pretty clothes again , and had the house all trimmed up , hadn brought many callers in two whole months . Doc Dunne and Miss Sis had come . So had Miss Shawnee Rakestraw , full of criticisms about the changes here , giving thanks that her dear old father had gone to his Heavenly Rest last year , saying how much she enjoyed her boarding house in town in inclement weather , was looking forward to Quinzaine Spa this summer . There was an idea . Miss Kizzie had been right snippy ever since they were married , though you have thought a namesake would have brought her round . Oh , she come to see them once , left silver teething rings for all of the trips . But when Miss Jen went over right away to return the call , Miss Kiz couldn have been very cordial , for she come back before she hardly had time to get there . More and more , these days , she been driving that pretty little mare that looked like her , over to Tillie and Nick -- his own old square frame box on posts , chickens and cats and pups under the house , everybody friendly inside , making a to-do over the babies dressed like dollies . Though he was glad she got on well with his young folks , she ought to be welcome at the finest house in the land , too . It made him pretty hot under the collar , after the idea Miss Sis had given him , to be told by Miss Kiz that her holy spa was all reserved for this summer and next , if you please , and that much as she regretted it , they would be unable to entertain Mrs . Robards and the children . She hoped they were well . He didn tell Miss Jen , but she must have got word from the cook or nurse , who of course knew those Quinzaine nigs , and she really took a fit . If he ever did such a thing again she die of shame . `` Have a party an ' leave m out , hon , he suggested . `` A swell party , send an invite to ever ody but them -- those folks you met at the Galt House , the ones I e got to know in this new Jockey Club affair , the whole dang neighborhood . We l have oystchers -- couple bar oystchers l fetch in a crowd any time . I l see word gets round . `` Don you dare ! Miss Jen was funny that way , funny that she didn seem to take to his ideas and perk up . He was downright worried about her , but there was one more thing he could try . Zion was surprised when Roy buggy stopped beside her on the pike one early summer day as she was walking home from the country school where she was teaching now that Eph Showers had had a call to preach in some mountain town . Roy smiled -- he did have a nice smile -- took off his hat most politely , told her to hop in , and he give her a lift to Quinzaine . Her hesitation was only momentary and she hoped he didn notice it , as she settled herself , asked quickly how Miss Jenny and the babies were getting on . `` See for yourself , Miss Zion . It won take a minute . He swung in through his own wide gateway . `` Them the purtiest babes you ever did see , but Miss Jen gets mighty lonesome . She l relish the sight of a friendly face . Miss Kiz won care your comin ' , will she ? `` Why of course not , Zion said uncomfortably . 
`` He must have forgiven me , Henrietta murmured to the room . The absolution of Doaty last will and testament was proof enough of that ; oaty would never have left her house to a godless woman . She found herself wishing an old wish , that she had told Doaty she was running away , that she had left something more behind her than the loving , sorry note and her best garnet pin . Perhaps Doaty had guessed already and kept her counsel . Henrietta thought , It extraordinary how much she always knew about both of us . There had been more to know about Hetty , inevitably , and most of it unfavorable . Adelia was the good one , or , if not always good , less frequently tempted . Their childhood would have been quite circumspect without Hetty flair for drama , especially through the long summers . In winter , in the city , there had been the Maneret School , which taught excellently with a kind of austere passion for knowledge ; here had been lessons in French from a small Polish nobleman with a really profound distaste for his pupils ; here had been the dancing class -- Miss Craddock , thin and tireless , with her supervising wand and her everlasting one-two-three , one-two-three . There had been supper parties and teas , fetes and little balls , Mama small and pretty and gay and Papa enormously jocular , enormously possessive , the sun around which the Blackwell planets revolved . Mama had died before the corruption of the family circle , the interruption of Charles . It was safe to assume that Papa , sighing heavily , had said many times to his remaining daughter , `` Thank God your poor mother was spared this , and indeed it might be true that it had been easier for Henrietta to leave , with her hand in Charles ' hand , just because her `` poor mother was gone already and would never know . Mama was vulnerable ; ne had always felt the need to make a safe world around her . But I would have gone anyway , thought Henrietta . She had always been able to ignore the moral question because there had been no choice . Only at this moment -- perhaps because it was before dawn and she was lying in Doaty bed -- she found herself examining how others might regard her . Perhaps they would argue that morality consisted just of that ability to see a choice . She turned on her side , finding the idea oppressive . If Adelia had felt about someone as Henrietta felt about Charles , would she have run away with him ? Impossible to imagine Adelia feeling so about anyone . No temptation , no sin . No temptation , no virtue ? A curious thought to end a curious night . The birds were really awake now in a colloquy of music , and light was beginning to creep across the room , touching sill and door , table and chair and all of Doaty flowers in their artificial blossom and leaf . Before anything else , she would go to Doaty grave with flowers from Doaty forgotten garden . Everything must wait upon this mission , this sentimental duty of a pilgrim whose nature avoided graveyards . She closed her eyes , remembering the small French cemetery , enclosed by stone walls . It had always seemed to rain there , and even the grass was gray . After the sad impatient moment , waiting for comfort which could not come , she slipped out of bed and went to the open window . The garden below was lacy with dew and enchanting in its small wildness . Leaning out , she could see a tangle of rosebush and honeysuckle , one not quite come to bloom , one just beyond it . On a thrusting spray thick with thorns and dewdrops and swelling pink buds , like a summer Valentine , a bird balanced and sang , nondescriptly brown and alive with its own music , a little engine of song . It was so pretty and artless that she felt like a child again and would have enjoyed running out barefoot to play on the wet grass with all the growing things , but Doaty never permitted bare feet and she was decidedly not a child but une femme d n certain age . Feeling suddenly neat and subdued , she dressed quite soberly and went downstairs . Rosa , unbelievably , was not yet up and about , reassurance that Rosa was human . Feeling protective toward this sleeping being , Henrietta found a yesterday bun and milk in a white jug , a breakfast which was somewhat the equivalent of going barefoot . Outside , the garden , the tame wilderness , yielded a patchwork bouquet of daisies , sweet william , scented stock and lady bedstraw , which she tied with long grasses and took back to show Rosa , who was now stirring about the kitchen and haranguing Folly . The poodle came gleefully to Henrietta and begged for the flowers , supplicating the air with prayerful forepaws . Henrietta held her bouquet out of reach and said it was for Doaty . `` Rummaging in the dew , said Rosa coldly . `` Go change your shoes before you turn around . She sounded so exactly like Doaty that Henrietta obeyed her under the clear impression that she could either comply or stay home . Folly danced , eager for whatever lay beyond the door . To a Blackwell , there was only one church . The cemetery slumbered just behind it , and the way lay through the village and close to the sea . For the first time in thirty years , Henrietta walked down the narrow street with its shuttered shops just stirring and its inhabitants eying her with the frankest curiosity . She smiled and bowed , recalling the princess-in-a-carriage feeling she had enjoyed when she was a child . Now , some of the acknowledgments were cautious , but all were interested . An old man , sitting against the wall of a cottage and waiting for the sun to find him , gave her a more than reflective look as she passed , the sap still plainly rising in his branches . On an impulse , she turned back and said good morning . He cupped his ear and shook his head at her repetition , announcing in a nettled way that he had heard her the first time . He then offered his own estimate of the weather , which was unenthusiastic . `` Summer been slow to come , he said . `` It my dryin ' out time . He scowled at her flowers . `` I taking them to the cemetery , said Henrietta , out of a vague feeling of hospitality . `` They l be takin ' me next , he said pleasantly , `` but not so soon they plan . See half of m in their graves before I choose my own coffin . It dryin ' myself out that does it . He regarded her with rising hope . `` You like to hear how I go about it . `` It nice of you , Henrietta said doubtfully . `` Y e welcome . He straightened himself , soldierly against the wall , and pulled his sprawled feet together so they stood side by side in their old boots . His stick ceased to be a thing to rest his chin on and became a pointer for emphasizing the finer aspects of his text . `` Every month , f three days , he said happily , `` I take no water into my system , no water whatsoever . It rests the tissues . Henrietta murmured that she could quite see how it would , and he nodded approval of her womanly good sense . `` Rests the tissues , he said , `` and pacifies the system . My dad did it , and he lived to a great age . He looked up at her sharply . `` Don remember , do you ? She did suddenly , through the link of memory with his father , old Titus , who must have been in his nineties when Henrietta ran away . Next to the Blackwells , Titus had owned the island most , and she and Adelia had often stood in front of him , silenced by his terrible years -- a scanty man with a thin beard and very deep-set blue eyes like a mariner , more aged than possible . He had never spoken once to the awed sisters , but his son had been friendly , a big fellow of fifty or more , a fishing-boat captain and powerful like the sea . It must be that son who sat before her now , shriveled to half his size and half his senses . She said gently , `` Of course I remember you . `` Not so well I remember you , he said . `` Y e the young Blackwell woman . Ran away on a black night with a lawful wedded man . I know all about you . `` You do seem to , said Henrietta , impressed . `` Can blame a man for leavin ' his wife , he said quite cheerfully . `` Left mine many a time , only she never knew it . Man in a boat , there a lot of places he can put in at and a lot of reasons he can be away for a bit . Any harm in that ? `` Probably , said Henrietta dryly . He gave a short hard laugh and looked at her knowingly . `` You be the one to say , he observed , and she found herself liking his approval none too well , but she could not defend herself and say that her actions were `` different , since all actions had their own laws . Only , this old man connivance was even less to her taste than Selma Cotter open censure . Well , she had not come back to Great Island to be understood , praised or condemned . She had come to make her peace with the past , and of that past this ancient of the earth was only a kind of shadow . She started to move away , just as a woman came out of the cottage , a big-boned , drab-haired figure with a clean apron tied over her limp print dress . She smiled vaguely at Henrietta and spoke to the old man . `` You e not had your breakfast yet , gran ad . `` Y dam ' porridge is no breakfast , he said . `` Milk and sops ! He beat the air with his stick , and it fell from his claws and clattered on the stones . `` He lowly today , his grand-daughter said wearily , and bent to pick it up . `` He got this idea about drying out `` It ain an idea ! `` If it ain an idea , she said , `` how comes it you can drink beer but not water ? He looked piously to heaven and said , `` Beer don affect the tissues none , and the ingenious hypocrisy of this defense pleased Henrietta so that she forgave him his stint of malevolence . His grand-daughter sighed . `` Come on , do . The children are eating , and Miss Blackwell on her way somewheres . `` To the graveyard . Who ain ? `` Not me . I e got a day work to do . -- You l be visiting Miss Doaty , Ma m ? Henrietta nodded . How much they knew about her ! The woman ( she must have been a tiny baby when Hetty and Delia had stood arm in arm , watching great age grow small ) answered the nod with her own . `` God rest her soul , she was a sweet one . Come on now . She put a strong hand under the old man arm and lifted him up , patiently , with the gentle cruelty and necessary tyranny that the young show toward the very old . He mumbled at her but let himself be led off inside the house , shuffling mightily to make it clear how weak and aged he was and how he was buffeted about by those who still had their wicked strength . There was a gabble of voices from indoors , young hungry sounds like cats after fish , and a burst of swearing from the old man . Henrietta looked down at her bouquet , still lively with its color and scent , and set her feet on their journey way again , leaving the village street and crossing the first field , Folly dancing ahead of her . At the edge of the field , the wild rolling land took over , dotted with fat round bushes like sheep . They were covered with tiny white blossoms , their scant roots clawing at the stony ground , and wild birds darted in and about and through them so they were nearly alive with the rustle and cry . The air was full of sounds too but placid ones , a terrestrial humming as much out of the earth as out of the blue sky . She felt mindless , walking , and almost easy until the church spire told her she was near the cemetery , and she caught herself wondering what she would say to Doaty . Both church and graveyard were smaller than she remembered them ( how many things had lessened while she was gone away ) but the headstones had grown so thick in thirty years that to find one named `` Dorothy Tredding seemed suddenly impossible . She sat down on the nearest , fallen with age and gray with sea-damp , her fingers tracing the indecipherable carved letters padded with green moss . The day sun was gathering its strength in gold , and she wished she had brought her parasol , if only to shade Doaty flowers . A small , rock-carved angel watched her from a nearby tomb , the only angel in the cemetery . She remembered , suddenly , a night of savage moonlight and scudding clouds when she and Adelia , having dared each other , had stolen out of their great safe house and come here , hand in hand , hoping and fearing ghosts . 
The Momoyama family had come from Miyagi Prefecture , in the northeast of the main Japanese island of Honshu , where there are still traces of the mysterious Ainu strain . The Ainus were a primitive people , already living on the island before the principal ancestors of the Japanese came from Southern Asia . Apparently they were of Caucasian blood . They had white skins and blue eyes ; ll their men were bearded , and many of their women were beautiful . A pitiful few of them are left now , to subsist mainly on the tourist trade and to sing their ancient tribal chants , which have the same haunting sadness as the laments of the American Indians . Most of them have been assimilated , but sometimes a man in Miyagi or Akita prefectures is much more hairy than the average Japanese , and occasionally a girl will be strikingly lovely , her coloring warmed and improved by a little of the tawny honey-in-the-sun tint of the invaders from the South . Tommy Momoyama was one of these fortunate occasions . She was taller than most Japanese girls , and had the exquisitely willowy form of the Japanese girl who is lucky enough to be tall . Her nose was higher of bridge , her complexion so pale as to be quite susceptible to sunburn , and the fish and vegetable diet of her forebears had given her teeth that were white and regular and strong . Her mouth , soft and full , was something for any man to dream about . She had black eyes , long and intriguingly tilted , and the way she walked was melody . She had been in Japan just one week . It was an alien land , and she hated it intensely ; he was already considering putting in rebellious requests for duty at San Diego , Bremerton , the Great Lakes , Pensacola -- any place the Navy had a hospital -- with a threat to resign her commission if the request were not granted . Anywhere would be better than the land of her ancestors . There was nothing wrong with her job . Tommy had been assigned to the psychopathic ward . There were no depressingly serious cases : the ward doctor sometimes teamed up with the chaplain to serve as a marriage counselor -- sometimes the Navy sent people back to the States to preserve a marriage -- but mental health as a rule was very high . At present the doctor main concern was in seeing to it that Japanese salvage firms were not permitted to operate on the hulks of warships sunk too close inshore , because the work involved setting off nerve-shattering blasts at all hours . Tommy was interested in psychiatry , because there was much an understanding nurse could do to help the patients . But she suffered in her off-duty hours . Such as now , when she sat at a table in the coffee shop at the Officers ' Club , having coffee and a hamburger to sustain her until dinnertime . She had changed into a cocktail dress , and the whole evening should have been before her , but already she was beginning to get a tight feeling at the back of her neck . This was one of the Navy crossroads -- you find them all around the world . Ships from the West Coast rotated on six-month tours of duty with the Seventh Fleet , and Yokosuka was the Seventh Fleet principal port for maintenance , upkeep and shore liberty . Sooner or later , all the gray Navy ships came in here ; f Tommy sat long enough , she would be sure to see all the young officers she had met in San Diego and Long Beach . And she wanted desperately to see someone she had known back there . She felt , rather than saw , the approach of the good-looking young man . He came through from the Fleet Bar , which was stag , with the ice cubes tinkling in a glass he carried . When he saw Tommy sitting alone , the tinkling sound stopped . He was perhaps a trifle tipsy , having been long at sea where drinking is not permitted , and consequently out of practice ; e wore a brown tweed sports jacket obviously tailored in Hong Kong , and he was of an age that marked him as a lieutenant . Probably off one of the carriers -- an aviator . There was a fifty-fifty chance , perhaps , that he would be unmarried , and an even more slender chance that his approach would be different . Japan did something to a man -- and it wasn just Japan , either , because the same thing applied anywhere overseas . It was as if foreign duty implied and excused license ; t intimated that the folks at home would never know about it , and , therefore , why not ? Then the young man in the brown sports jacket spoke , and it was no different . `` Harro , girl-san ! He said , turning on what was meant to be charm . `` You catchee boy-furiendo ? Maybe you likee date with me ? `` I beg your pardon ! Tommy said out of her cold rage . `` I don believe I know you , and I can understand your quaint brand of English -- it was meant to be English , wasn it ? The nice-looking young officer fell back on his heels , open-mouthed and blushing . At least , he had the decency to blush , she thought . `` Oh -- I sorry ! You see , I thought -- I mean I really had no idea -- `` Oh , yes -- you had ideas ! Tommy interrupted furiously . `` All wrong ones ! Then she jerked her thumb toward the door in a very American gesture , and dropped into Navy slang . `` Take off , fly-boy ! `` Uh -- sorry ! He muttered , and took off , obviously feeling like a fool . The trouble was that there was no lasting satisfaction in this for Tommy . She felt like a fool , too . It hadn been this way in college , or in nurses ' training ; t wasn this way in the hospital at San Diego . Everybody had accepted her for what she was -- a very charming girl . Nobody had addressed her in broken English at any of those places , nobody had suggested that she wasn American . There are Spanish girls who look like Tommy Momoyama , brunettes with a Moorish hint of the Orient in their faces ; here are beauties from the Balkan states who are similarly endowed , and -- back in the blessed United States -- they were regarded simply as pretty women . Now , having been sent halfway around the world on a job she had not asked for , Tommy was being humiliated at every turn . She looked around , self-consciously . Four little Japanese waitresses were murdering the English language at the counter -- Yuki Kobayashi happened to be one of them . Everybody but Tommy seemed to think it was charming when they called , `` Bifutek-san ! For a steak sandwich , or `` Kohi Futotsu ! For one cup of coffee . Two other Japanese girls were sitting at the tables , both quite pretty and well groomed . One was with a whitehaired and doting lieutenant commander ; he other was with her American husband and their exceptionally appealing children . Seeing these did nothing for Tommy mood . She told herself rebelliously , and with pride , I am an American ! And so she was , and would remain . But she was learning that so long as she was in this country , and wore civilian dress in the Club , there would always be transient young men who would approach her with broken English . There had been occasions when some of the more experienced had even addressed her in what might have been perfectly good Japanese . Tommy wouldn know ; fter coming to America , her parents had spoken only English . One thing was becoming increasingly sure . She had been sent to the wrong place for duty . There was more to service in the Navy Nurse Corps than the hours in the ward . One had to have friends , and a congenial life in after-duty hours . Now there was raucous male singing from the Fleet Bar . It was terribly off key , and poorly done , and Tommy could never admit to herself that male companionship was a very natural and important thing , but all at once she felt lonesome and put-upon . She finished her hamburger and drank her coffee and paid her check ; he got out of the coffee shop before the incident could be repeated . Eating while angry had given her a slight indigestion . Back in her living quarters at the hospital she took bicarbonate of soda , and sulked . Then , after a while , she went to her mirror . It was all true . She certainly looked Japanese , and perhaps she could not really blame the young men . And , still , they did not have to be so crude in their approach . There was a letter to write to her mother , and she tried to make its tone cheerful . She promised that she would soon take a few day leave and visit the uncle she had never seen , on the island of Oyajima -- which was not very far from Yokosuka . And tomorrow she would take time to shop for the kimono her mother wanted to present to the young wife of a faculty member as a hostess gown . Tommy , of course , had never heard of a kotowaza , or Japanese proverb , which says , `` Tanin yori miuchi , and is literally translated as `` Relatives are better than strangers . Actually , this is only another way of saying that blood is thicker than water . Doc Doolittle scheduled appearance at captain mast was a very unusual thing , because the discipline dispensed there is ordinarily for the young and immature , and a chief is naturally expected to stay off the report . But the beer hall riot in Subic had been unusual , too , and Walt Perry was convinced that Doc had started it through some expert tactics in rabble rousing . Just why anybody should wish to start a riot the executive officer didn know . In his opinion , Doc had not grown up . The lieutenant was not entirely wrong in the belief . There had never been a good reason for Doc Doolittle to grow up . He had come into the Navy too young , with the image of the fun-loving Guns Appleby before him . The war found him much too early , and its perils -- and especially its awful boredom -- were best forgotten in horseplay and elaborate practical jokes , and even now Doc had never found any stabilizing , sobering influence . He remained young at heart , with an overdeveloped sense of humor . He wisecracked about the captain indoctrination of new men , took great delight in slaughtering cockroaches with ethyl chloride , and gave no thought for tomorrow . He was doing thirty years , and the Navy would take care of him . The job security enjoyed by Doc Doolittle , and nearly all members of the Armed Forces , is a wonderful thing . Actually , all a man in uniform has to do is to get by . He may not rise to the heights , but he can get by , and eventually be retired . Doc had been under restriction to the ship since the Bustard left Subic . This deprived him of liberty in Hong Kong , but he told Boats McCafferty that Hong Kong was a book he had read before , and the Navy would always bring him there again , some day . At Yokosuka he was restricted to the confines of the Base because Walt Perry , being thoughtful , knew that Doc might have to draw some medical supplies from the hospital or the Supply Base . This gave Doc the whole range of the naval establishment , and suited him quite well . There were two things he wanted to do : inspect one of the many caves that had been dug into the hills on the Naval Base , and visit an old shipmate . A telephone line had been hooked up to connect the ship with the Base exchange . After supper , Doc called Whitey Gresham , who was now a lieutenant and had a family . `` Well , Doc , you old sonofabitch ! Whitey exclaimed , with true affection . `` Come over and have a drink . We live down by the Base commissary . Grab a taxi . `` I l be there , but I l walk , Doc said . `` I e got to run an errand on the way . See you in about an hour . He threw a smart salute at the gangway , went up the dock , and turned down the wide street in front of the Petty Officers ' Club . 
How , he wondered , does one enjoy one spare time ? He considered some interesting excursion but he was on the road every day from dawn to dusk . Then there was exercise , boating and hiking , which was not only good for you but also made you more virile : the thought of strenuous activity left him exhausted . Perhaps golf , with a fashionable companion -- but he lost his clubs , hadn played in years . There was swimming over at the Riverside Hotel , but his skin was so white he looked like the bottom of a frog . Perhaps a packing trip into the Sierras , let his beard grow -- but that was too stark . I could , he thought , take a long walk -- but where ? The telephone rang . `` You missed it , Buzz voice said , `` You should have gone over to the Pagan Room with us . Wow . Strippers , but scrumptious , and Toodle Williams and her all-lesbian band . `` Hi , Buzz , Owen said . `` I went over to the Willows and dropped two notes . `` Tough , Buzz said , `` Listen , we e having a stag dinner over at the Pagan Room on Friday . Imagine a stag dinner with Toodle Williams . He laughed and laughed . Owen wanted to be pleasant because Buzz worked the territory next to his , but he hadn come to Reno for stag dinners . `` Thanks , Owen said , `` but Friday is a long way off and anything can happen . Buzz was a tireless instigator who never let his victims rest . When Owen was finally rid of him , there was a timid rap at the door . `` Yes , Owen called out . `` Yes ? `` I Mrs . Gertrude Parker , a soft voice explained , `` And I like to talk to you for a few minutes , please . Ahah , he thought , a lush divorcee at last . Probably saw me in the lobby . He was disappointed to find a nervous , scrawny woman with a big hat standing at the door . She frowned at his green pajamas with the yellow moons . `` How do you do ? She said , semi-professionally . `` Our church is sponsoring a group of very courageous women up in Alaska . We call them lay-sisters and they go among the Eskimos making friends and bringing the light . They e up there in that freezing climate and all of us have to try and help them . `` Oh ? `` You see , she said , looking past him into the room , where the highball glasses sparkled dully in the bright light , `` you and I can understand the many hardships they have to undergo . `` Why is that ? She apparently wasn satisfied with his reaction . Smug , Owen thought , smug and sappy . There was a slight nervous twitch in the region of her left eye . It gave her a lewd , winking effect . `` Have you ever tried to reason with an Eskimo ? She asked , winking wildly . `` They are a very difficult group of people . `` I don know much about them , Owen admitted , `` but I suppose they have their own religion and they probably resent outsiders coming in and telling them what to do and what not to do . She smiled in a sickly-tolerant fashion . `` You know , that very interesting . People don know how much they give away about themselves by remarks like that . The more canvassing I do , the more I note how far most people are from their personal God . Forebearing , Owen kept his peace . What would happen next ? That she was out for a touch was certain , but when did she get to the pitch ? Several people passed in the hall and stared as he slowly retreated , trying to close the door a little , and she slowly leaned toward him and raised her voice . `` How did you get by the desk ? He asked curiously . `` I sure the hotel doesn know you e wandering around the corridors , knocking on strangers ' doors and talking down Eskimos . `` Oh , I just come once a week . Every day I visit a different hotel . I feel it my duty . I do this work all on my own , because I understand the difficulties and I want to help these lay-sisters . Do you know these women go all through Alaska , and they don have the proper facilities ? They travel in pairs as much as a hundred-and-fifty miles a day . `` Do you have any idea how far I travel every day ? I have the whole Pacific Northwest . Owen was aware he was getting overexcited but he couldn help himself . Mrs . Gertrude Parker drew back . `` That hardly a Christian approach , she remonstrated . `` You e in the secular world . `` I didn say it was Christian . I don think you l find many active Christian salesmen . Not that religion isn big business ; hose bibles and prayer books make a lot of money for publishing houses , but they don get top personnel . Our key salesmen are in appliances and cosmetics . `` God , I take it , plays no part in this , she said waspishly . `` God doesn have any appliance or cosmetics , he said heatedly before he caught himself . It sounded silly ; hy go on ? More people were passing ; e had to find some way to close this impossible conversation . `` And whiskey , she said , smiling and blinking at the highball glasses . `` Don forget whiskey ; t such a big seller . `` You know , he said , getting a grip on himself , `` I think you e going to have to excuse me . I have an appointment . `` I can imagine , she said . `` Probably down at the bar . But what do you want to do about the lay-sisters ? They must be freezing up there now . Can you help them ? `` Leave a card or something . I l think it over . `` I have no card , she said bitterly . `` You haven been listening to what I e been telling you . I only hope my talking to you has helped you a little , anyway , because you need spiritual bucking-up . She looked crestfallen , as if he had somehow disappointed the whole human race . She stood indecisively for a moment , then walked down the hall ; e heard her knocking on another door . It took him about fifteen minutes to calm himself ; hen he realized he was hungry . He showered , shaved , dressed and went down to the dining room for breakfast . On the way he stopped at the desk to receive his mail . There was a check from his company , and the usual enthusiastic bulletins on new lines they always issued . His lawyer had sent him a statement on his overdue alimony , and there was a letter from the Collector of Internal Revenue asking him to stop in his office and explain last year exemptions . He ate breakfast in a sullen mood , but afterwards , when he walked out onto Virginia Street , he felt braced . He looked off to the crest of the Sierras , still white-topped ; he glisten of the Truckee River made a wide spangle . He felt suddenly elated , adventurous . With any luck at all he could easily find a flowerpot . Although it was only three o lock , he stopped in at the Golden Calf . The tables were all spinning , the dice rattling , the bar crowded . Just to test himself , he played roulette for quarters on his old combination , five and seventeen , and within an hour , he had won , surprisingly , twenty dollars . The way was opening up ; hen the management brought around champagne , the breakfast settled its whirling around in his stomach . The Golden Calf was dimly lit with shaded neon . There were more women than men in the place , but he couldn find a flowerpot . They all had the hard look of gamblers who had stopped dreaming , who automatically turned the cards , hardly caring what showed up . The mural around the wall depicted early settlers in covered wagons , who appeared much more animated than the gamblers . The women had a bright shining expectancy as they leaned out from the wall and gazed splendidly into the distance , while the men were stern but hopeful . All , of course , except the Donner party who were bent on starving to death . `` I wonder if they did eat each other at the end , Owen mused . He sat down next to a heavily-upholstered blonde , but she was cleaned out in twenty minutes . She sighed a dirty word and left . Owen was surprised to see Mrs . Gertrude Parker playing the one-arm bandits that were cunningly arranged by the entrance . She sat down and played two slots at once , looking grim , as if bested by mechanical devices , and Owen felt sorry for the lay-sisters depending on her support . A dried-up cowboy sat down next to him in the blonde place . He was a little more authentic than usual because he smelled slightly of the stables . `` What you need is a steady martingale , the cowboy announced after watching Owen play . `` You can build on your hit-and-miss five-seventeen . `` What are you playing ? Owen asked . `` I just logging , the cowboy explained . `` I keep all these plays in this little black book , and I watch over a twelve-hour period to find out what numbers are repeating . But roulette not my game . I always trying to find a breaking table in blackjack . Incidentally , I pretty famous in these parts : I called The Wrangler . `` Nice to know you . Don you have to spend any time on your ranch ? `` Well , of course I do . I with the Bar-H , pushing a horse called Sparky . He my own horse , and what I collect from him I use on blackjack . This Sparky can rack and single-foot and he the fastest thing in Washoe County . I figure if I can get any kind of publicity campaign going , I l land him on TV -- you know , one of those favorite horses for some Western hero . I once trained a horse for Hoot Gibson , but nothing like Sparky . He a pinto and he photographs wonderfully . Five came up while Owen was listening to The Wrangler and he neglected to play , a loss of ten dollars . This proved conclusively that The Wrangler was a jinx , so he walked on down to Hurrays , an even more glorified gambling den than the Golden Calf . When he looked in the back , Mrs . Gertrude Parker was marking keno cards . His adventurous spirit had waned ; e studied the pistol exhibition that Hurrays featured as an added attraction . He ogled a long redhead with green eyes , but she was a shill with her money in front of her . He had no great prejudice against shills ; t just seemed such a dry run . There was no cash around ; veryone was flipping silver dollars . The management discreetly withdrew the green stuff into the office and gave the customers chips or checks or premium points . He read a special announcement whereby Hurrays would feature a special floorshow at three A . M . starring Adele ( The Body ) Brenner and fourteen glamorous schoolgirls . He wondered if he might bag a tourist , but they looked frightened of him . He passed two brides , both wearing orchids , and they made him feel a little sad . Owen found Buzz watching chuck-a-luck . Buzz had on a Hawaiian shirt and was carrying some sun-tan oil and dark glasses . He was shorter and fatter than Owen , who felt good standing next to him . `` We e all going over to Lake Tahoe and try our luck at Cal-Neva , Buzz explained , still instigating . `` We ran into a guy at the Pagan Room who guarantees we can beat the wheel . He started out as a stickman , then became a pit boss until the Club found him crossroading . He was knocking down checks at faro . `` I allergic to Tahoe , Owen explained . `` Something about the pollen . `` Well , okay , Buzz said . `` We l see you around later . Owen went over to the crap table and the dice were hot , but he couldn pyramid with any consecutive success . `` How your luck , honey ? A short platinum blonde in a bursting sun-suit addressed him . She looked well-fed and prosperous , but he didn get the impression he was being propositioned the way he been hoping . `` I haven had any luck since I was a baby . `` Stake me , she said , `` and let me at those dice . I l make them dance the tango . We l get it in a hurry and get it out . `` Let have a drink and discuss a merger . `` If you go broke , she said , smiling up at him , `` I l leave you . `` Sounds like real love , Owen said . `` It sort of brings a lump to my throat . `` My name Gisele , the blonde said after she ordered a Scotch . `` Named after the ballet . My mother wanted to call me Sylphide , but it sounded too affected . 
Spencer said nothing . `` Is there any word you would like to offer in your own defense ? Spencer shook his head . Alexander said , `` Answer me properly , Spencer . Spencer was quiet for a moment longer , then he said , `` There is nothing I want to say , Captain . `` Very well . Alexander walked away . Naval procedure , he thought , had its moments of grim humor . Philip Spencer had cold-bloodedly planned the murder of his captain , yet it seemed in order to chide him for a lapse of proper address . During the morning hours , it became clear that the arrest of Spencer was having no sobering effect upon the men of the Somers . Those named in the Greek paper were manufacturing reasons to steal aft under pretence of some call of duty , so as to be near Spencer , watching an opportunity to communicate with him . Hostile glances were flashed at both Alexander and Gansevoort . The two met in the Captain cabin . `` What is the next step , Captain ? `` More arrests , I fear . In your opinion , who is this E . Andrews on the ' certain ' list ? `` Cromwell , of course . He is the oldest and most experienced of the lot . He saw the dangers , not the glories of being identified as a mutineer . Somehow he talked Spencer into letting him use another name . There was a tap at the door and Oliver entered with the word that Heiser wished to see the Captain . `` Have him come in . Heiser , breathless and wild-eyed , brought the chilling news that the handspikes , heavers and holystones had been mysteriously removed from their customary places . `` And also , sir , two articles which were considered souvenirs now must be regarded in another light entirely . An African knife and battle-ax are at this moment being sharpened by McKinley and Green . McKinley was overheard to say that he would like to get the knife into Spencer possession and that -- `` Where did you gather all this information , Heiser ? Who reported to you the disappearance of handspikes and heavers and who -- He was interrupted by a crash from the deck and sprang toward the ladder , with Gansevoort and Heiser behind him . A glance revealed that the main topgallant mast had been carried away . The aimless milling about of what had been a well-trained , well-organized crew struck Alexander with horror . He bellowed orders and watched the alert response of some of his men and watched , too , the way a dozen or more turned their heads questioningly toward the shackled figure as though for further instruction . Adrien Deslonde hastened to Alexander side . `` Small violently jerked the weather-royal brace with full intention to carry away the mast . I saw him myself and it was done after consultation with Cromwell . I swear it , sir . And it was clear that Adrien was not mistaken , for both Small and Cromwell took no step toward aiding in the sending up of the new topgallant mast till Philip Spencer had given the signal to obey . Then , with disappointment evident upon their faces , they moved to the work . Alexander guessed that they had planned confusion and turmoil , thinking it the ideal climate in which to begin battle and bloodshed . Their strategy was sound enough and , he reasoned , had been defeated only by Philip Spencer unwillingness to sanction an idea he had not originated . When the mast was raised , Alexander gave the order for Small and Cromwell to be placed under arrest , and now three figures in irons sprawled upon the open deck and terror stalked the Somers . Spencer potential followers were openly sullen and morose , missing muster without excuse , expressing in ominous tones their displeasure at the prisoners being kept in irons , communicating with the three by glance and signal . One of the missing handspikes came out of its hiding place after Midshipman Tillotson had been insolently disobeyed by Seaman Wilson . Tillotson had reported the man to Gansevoort and an hour later , with back turned , had been attacked by Wilson , brandishing the weapon . Wilson , shackled and snarling , was thrown with the other prisoners and was soon joined by Green , McKee and McKinley . Not a man on the brig , loyal or villainous , could be unaffected by the sight of seven men involved in the crime of mutiny . In the tiny cabin , Alexander met with Gansevoort , Heiser and Wales to speak and to listen . Three days had passed since Spencer arrest and each day had brought new dangers , new fears . Gansevoort said , `` It requires an omniscient eye to select those if any on whom we can now rely . To have the Greek paper is not the great help that at first flush it seemed . From actions aboard , it is easy to guess that Spencer boast of twenty staunch followers was a modest estimate . `` Well , Heiser ventured , `` why don we hold an investigation with questioning and -- `` That would be worse than useless , Alexander broke in . `` There is not space to hold or force to guard any increased number of prisoners . Besides , suppose we hold a court of inquiry , then what ? Then we have informed a large number of our crew that when they reach the United States , they will be punished but that in the meanwhile , they may run loose and are expected to perform their jobs in good order . Mr . Heiser , does this sound like a truly workable plan to you ? Do you not think these men might choose the black flag here and now ? Wales said , `` Of course they would . They are about to do so at any moment as it is . All that is needed is for one man to feel self-confident enough to take the lead . As soon as that one man is appointed by himself or the others or by a signal from Spencer , we are going to be rushed . We are going to be rushed and murdered . `` That is extravagant language , Mr . Wales . We are not going to be rushed and murdered , Alexander said . `` We are going to bring the Somers into New York harbor safe and sound . `` Of course , I agree with the Captain , Gansevoort said thoughtfully , `` but the conspiracy is ferocious and desperate . The instinct of discipline has been lost . Anything is possible when anarchy has the upper hand . He paused , then added , `` Everything on a ship is a weapon . Implements of wood and iron are available for close and hasty combat no matter where a man stands . And we are positive of so few and suspicious of so many . `` We ourselves must stand sentinel . Alexander said . `` Under arms day and night , watch and watch about . Those of us present , the Perry brothers , Deslonde and the other midshipmen now have the responsibility of the Somers . A great deal of labor we have as well , for we are too uncertain of where trust may be placed . And when he was alone again in the cabin , Alexander lowered his head into his arms and wept , for he knew full well what must be done , what in the end would be done . With all his heart he had loved the Navy and now he must act in accordance with the Navy implacable laws . And when he did , when he gave to his ship that protection necessary to preserve her honor , he knew he would lose forever the Navy to which he had dedicated his soul . Where had he failed ? How had he failed ? He who had tried so hard , who had yearned so passionately to be a great officer . It came to him as he wept there aboard the Somers that it was as foolish to strive for greatness as to seek to storm the gates of heaven . It was given or it was not given . One did one best and if fortune smiled , there was a reward . One did one best and if fortune frowned , an eighteen-year-old boy with murder in his heart sailed aboard one ship . And Alexander sobbed like a girl for the dreams he had had , and he felt no shame . God knew his tears were his to shed if he so desired , for it had not been with an egotist rage for fame that he had held precious his naval career . Another field had given him fame enough to satisfy any egotist . It was for love that he had served the Navy . To have someday that love returned was what he had lived for . Now the hope was gone . Yes , he would bring the Somers safely into New York harbor but at a price . Dear God , at what a price . And after a while , he dried his tears and walked the deck as a captain should with assurance and dignity . Stern-faced , he inspected the prisoners , satisfying himself that they were clean , well fed and comfortable within reason . The prisoners averted their eyes but not before he had glimpsed hatred and anger . Only Cromwell , the giant boatswain , was mild-mannered and respectful . He said , `` Captain , may I speak , please ? Captain , I am innocent of any plot against you or the ship . `` Are you , Cromwell ? `` Yes , sir . Before God I swear I am innocent . I know nothing of any plot , if there is such a thing . `` You are the only man aboard who can be in doubt . `` I cannot speak for others , sir , but I am innocent . He leaned closer to Alexander , squinting up at him from the deck . `` Surely , Captain , you did not find my name on any suspicious paper or anything . `` No , Cromwell , I did not find your name . You were careful about that . Now Spencer , seeming with effort to shake himself from lethargy , spoke . He said , `` Cromwell is telling you the truth . He is innocent . Alexander shifted his gaze to Spencer . The calmness and detachment of his tone suggested unawareness of how implicit was his own guilt in the words he had used to defend Cromwell . Alexander knew Spencer too well to think him naive or thick-skulled . And in a sudden wave of painful clarity , Alexander recognized a kinship with Spencer . Here was another human who understood the stupidity of quarreling with the inevitable . There was good fortune and there was bad and Philip Spencer , in handcuffs and ankle irons , knew it to be a truth . He expected nothing for himself but that which naturally follows those marked for misfortune . The red-haired captain , towering above the prisoner as a symbol of decency and authority , was shocked to find himself looking with sympathy upon Philip Spencer . This tragic lad had forged his own shackles . But he could not have done so , could not have found the way , had fortune favored him . And because fortune had favored neither the prisoner nor the red-haired captain , they would be each other undoing . `` Spencer , if there is guilt , if you do not deny your own , how is it possible for Cromwell to be innocent ? He was your constant companion . The hazel eyes met Alexander . `` I tell you he is innocent . `` And do you think there is a reason why I should accept your word ? `` Yes . I have nothing to gain by defending Cromwell . `` Nothing to lose , either , Spencer . `` That true , Spencer agreed and withdrew himself from the conversation . His eyes went back to contemplation of the sea . `` I am innocent , Captain , Cromwell said again . `` Before God , Captain , I am innocent . And though it was logical that a man who could plot mass murder would not hesitate to speak an untruth , still it was difficult to understand why Spencer spoke only for Cromwell . The boatswain was as guilty as any . No action of his could be interpreted in his favor and four midshipmen , prior to their knowing the significance of the Greek paper , had seen it in Cromwell hands while Spencer whispered explanations . `` I thought , Midshipman Rogers had told Alexander , `` that Spencer was teaching him geometry . It was fantastic to turn from the seven men in shackles to the wardroom , where a class of apprentices awaited him . This was a training ship and the training would continue , but there was an element of frightful absurdity here which Alexander recognized . Some of these apprentices were , in physical strength , already men and doubtless a percentage of them were Spencer followers . 
Rachel steered me along toward a school for young boys beginning to study the Torah . Bits of trash lay in the roadway . The air smelled warmish and foul . A young man appeared out of a side alley and walked toward us with quick strides . He wore a long double-breasted coat of a heavy material , dark trousers , and black boots with buckles . His black hat with its wide brim , high crown , and fur trim rode high . With his head erect , he approached , not glancing at us , and passed by with his clear eyes raised and fixed straight ahead . He had a pinkish-white complexion , a small straight nose , a short black beard , and tightly curled paot . I was suddenly conscious of my bare arms . The girls in the market place wore long-sleeved dresses and covered their legs with cloth stockings . I turned and watched him stride down the center of the road . His hands were swinging at his sides , and he passed through the dingy market place with his back straight and , pivoting on his heel , he entered an old stone building . Rachel had seen me watching the young man . She smiled . `` When your mother was here he must have been a young boy . Like the ones you will see now . I swallowed hard and looked down at my feet plodding along beside Rachel . She led me into a twisting side alley . The dirty , discolored buildings looked boarded up , and their few windows stood high above our heads . Rachel said that schools and synagogues occupied most of the buildings . We entered one where the front door stood ajar and climbed a flight of steep steps to the main floor . An old man with a white beard and dressed in a long shabby coat , baggy trousers , and a black skullcap greeted us . Rachel talked to him . He nodded , clasping and unclasping his hands over his paunch , and flicked glances at me . I thought he would ask us to leave because Rachel and I were bare-armed , but he looked down into his beard and preceded us down the corridor . His toes pointed out toward the walls . He stopped in front of a door , placed a finger on his lips , and , still peering down into his beard , pushed open the door to a classroom . We stepped inside . He left us . Little boys crowded together on long wooden benches , and in the center of the room sat the teacher . His black beard dripped down over the front of his coat . One white hand poised a stick above his desk . He turned his surly , half-closed eyes toward us , stared for a second , then shouted in Yiddish , `` One , two , three ! Rapping the stick against the desk . The little boys shrilled out a Yiddish translation or interpretation of the Five Books of Moses , which they had previously chanted in Hebrew . They chanted a fixed tune in time to the report of the stick . Each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked back and forth on the bench in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of Europe . The boys were tiny . They had large bright eyes , the small upturned noses of all babies everywhere , and hair cropped short except for the long ringlets of paot framing their little white faces . They bent over yellowed prayerbooks and looked up only to watch the teacher . Since they did not glance curiously at us once , I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction . The guttural language from the ghetto stopped . The teacher plunged the children into a new portion , this time in Hebrew , rapping the stick incessantly . One boy who rocked back and forth over his worn book had bright red hair and freckles . His tightly curled paot hung down to his narrow shoulders . In the center of his brilliant curls sat a small black skullcap . His head barely rose above the table . I stared at him for a long time . He did not return my interest . My eyes traveled over the bare walls and up to the one partially open window high above the little figures and back to the boys . Some of them ignored the texts and had apparently memorized the words long ago . They singsonged the portion at the teacher , who accompanied them in an off-key baritone and spurred them on with the stick . The tapping defined the rhythm and kept the boys awake . I could not keep my eyes away from the boy with the red hair . His body pitched back and forth on the bench . His front teeth were missing . I shuddered and backed out of the room . Rachel followed , looked at me , and clucked with her tongue . We walked down the cool hall silently . From behind us came the rapping of the stick and the high-pitched voices of the boys who would grow to devote their lives to rigid study and prayer . I said , `` How long do they keep that up ? `` All day , she said . `` Except for Shabbat , when they are praying all day . I rubbed my hands together . They had turned numb and prickly in the classroom . The old man in the baggy clothes waited at the foot of the steps . He glanced down into his beard and muttered something in Yiddish . Rachel said , `` He asks for money . She passed by him . I reached into the pocket of my skirt , fingered ten pruta , and dropped the coin . Then I picked it up again and handed it to the old man . He thanked me . I didn look at him . I grinned at Rachel . `` Does this bother you ? I said . She smiled to herself . `` Most of our Sabras think it horrible . When we were fighting , a few of our orthodox people were lying down in the roads so we could not pass . They said that we must not fight but wait for the Messiah . I was amazed . You had to have convictions to lie down in the road in all those clothes and appear as though you might wish to turn yourself out of your own home . You had to be stupid or crazy or immortal . And I wasn . I was American . You had to know , also , that you were going to fail . All of it might have been heroic , but they had done it in the wrong place . I resented them . Rachel faced me . Her bright eyes were twinkling . She said , `` Sometimes I think they are keeping religion for us while we play around . Your mother hated this way of life . She wished to change much for the children here . I said quietly , respectfully , `` What did she do here ? In this section ? Rachel clicked her tongue behind her teeth . `` Here , nothing . But when she saw the children you have just visited , she wanted to take them away and put them out in the country , in the kibbutzim . She loved the children . She was a strange woman , your mother . When she loved , it was with a passion that drove her along and carried along with her those things she loved . Nothing was too impossible for her to do when she wanted . She stayed here to work for Aliah . For many immigrants , for many children , the first thing they knew of Israel and freedom was your mother . Sometimes it was dangerous for her . Rachel grinned slyly . `` But she loved danger . She took it with her wherever she went ; he chose it . And I think she sought out danger as much as she sought out helping other people . She was most strange woman . Ready to follow her impulse . It was an impulse when she was here in Me She rim -- I was with her -- that led her to stay in Israel . Your mother wanted to bring children to Israel so that they could leave their ghettos . Here they did not need to be in ghettos . If she could not take the children out of this section , at least she could take other children out of their countries and put them on the farms . She set out to make sure that no Jewish child anyplace in the world had to live in a place such as this . I said quietly , gaining nerve , ready to ask any question at all , no matter how intimate , ready to be rebuffed , `` Then why did she leave Israel ? I like to know that very much . Rachel clasped her hands together and slowed her pace . The soles of her sandals reported sharply on the cobblestones . She pursed her lips , then clamped them together so tightly that I thought she was angry with me . But she sighed and her face relaxed . `` Trouble came into her life . She had good friends here , people who liked her . Who loved her . But she had to go out and hurt herself . There was a man here in town . He helped her meet people so she could go out and do the work she wanted . She worked very hard . There was a refugee who was able to come here because of her . He came with his son . At first I thought they were relatives of your mother , but it was not so . This refugee was a middle-aged man , a big , handsome man with a strut to his walk as I have never before seen . He had the black numerals on his arm , so he had been branded in a concentration camp . Yet he walked like a young man . Often he was terribly despondent and talked to no one . Then he would walk off for a few days alone in the direction of Europe . All his family was dead , except for his son . Your mother would always retrieve him when he wandered off , and she would send him home to his son . He loved the son and was always glad to be sent back to him . Then his son did something -- Rachel threw up her hands -- `` I don know what , but something , to an official here -- it was during the Mandate -- and the son was imprisoned . A few hours after the son was arrested , your mother was informed . She ran from a little group of us . We were sitting together , talking . She went to the father and found he had hanged himself . Rachel paused . It was silent in the stone alley . Then she continued with energy , `` I myself did not see her until a week after she had run off to find the father . No one saw her except the man Reuveni . `` Yes , I said . `` I know him . Rachel gave me a direct , bright-eyed look . She said , `` Reuveni wanted your mother to give up her deep interest in this refugee . He said she would only hurt herself . He complained to me once that I must talk to her . When I did , she shrugged her shoulders and said that Reuveni wanted her to marry him . I asked her if she would , and she said she would not . He had known when he first helped her to meet the right people and work with them that she did not intend to marry him . Anyway , I did not see her until two weeks after the refugee hanged himself . She came to me one day . She was pale and skinny ; he was terribly alone . And she said that after this man had been dead for a week she had gone to Reuveni and accepted his proposal . He shouted at her and told her he loved her and couldn understand why she had upset herself . But now he was happy she would let him straighten out her life and take care of her . He would never let her harm herself again . For one whole week he never let her stay alone . She let him lead her around . He took her to a doctor , for she was run down , nervous , did not care where she was . Reuveni took her with him wherever he went . He did not let her talk to people ; e did not let her choose her own food . She was limp and beaten from her loss ; he did not care . 
`` And I l take you with me . The two of them against the world . That had been how she imagined it . For when he began to talk and dream all at the same time , making his plans as he went , she had begun dreaming too . But now the dream was over . The big waking up had happened . `` What did I imagine ? She thought . `` Did I see him about to swing low in a chariot ? Or maybe poling up the south fork of the Forked Deer River braving the wastes dumped in it ? Maybe I saw him on a barge with a gang of Ethiopians poling it . And I l take you with me . He had taken her all right . Wednesday nights after youth fellowship . Out of the church and into his big car , it tooling over the road with him driving and the headlights sweeping the pike ahead and after he hit college , his expansiveness , the quaint little pine board tourist courts , cabins really , with a cute naked light bulb in the ceiling ( unfrosted and naked as a streetlight , like the one on the corner where you used to play when you were a kid , where you watched the bats swooping in after the bugs , watching in between your bouts at hopscotch ) , a room complete with moths pinging the light and the few casual cockroaches cruising the walls , an insect Highway Patrol with feelers waving . And the bed that sagged in a certain place where all the weight had been put too many times before and the walls fine and thin for overhearing talk in the next room when Gratt went out for ice , the sound coming through the walls like something on the other side of the curtain , so you knew they heard you when they were quiet and while you lay wondering what they had heard you listened . And Gratt Shafer would be in Memphis today for the wedding rehearsal and then tomorrow he would marry just like everybody knew he would , just like everybody knew all along . Like Mattie and the mayor up there gripping the microphone and Toonker Burkette back in his office yanking out teeth , like they all knew he would . Just like the balloon would go up and you could sit all day and wish it would spring a leak or blow to hell up and burn and nothing like that would happen . Or you could hope the parachute wouldn open just so you could say you saw it not open , not because you meant any harm to Starkey Poe in his suit of red underwear , but mainly because you were tired of being an old maid -- a thing which cannot admit when it thinks it might be pregnant , but must stand the dizzy feeling all alone and go on like everything is all right instead of being able to say to somebody in a normal voice : `` I think I pregnant . You could wish that . Or you could wish your daddy would really do it -- kill Gratt Shafer like he said when you all the time , all along , could feel the nerve draining out of him like air out of a punctured tire when you are on a muddy road alone and it is raining and at night . So you sit in the car and listen to the air run out and listen to the rain and see the mud in front of the headlights , waiting for you , for your new spectator pumps , waiting for you to squat by yourself out there in your tight skirt , crying and afraid and trying to get that damned son-of-a-bitch tire off , because that is being an old maid too , if you happen to drive a car , it is changing the tire yourself in the night , and in the mud and the rain , hating to get out in it but afraid to stay and afraid to try to walk out for help . And every sound that might be the rain also might be the man who thinks after he has raped you he has to beat your brains out with a tire tool so you won tell , a combination like ham and eggs , rape her and kill her , and that is being an old maid too . It is not having his baby nestled warm and fat against your breast and it is not having somebody that really gives a damn whether some tramp cracks your skull . And most of all it is not having the only man you could love , whether he drives a bread truck or delivers the mail or checks the berry crates down at the sheds , or owns seventeen oil wells and six diamond mines , for if you are anybody what he is or does makes no difference if he is the one . He can even be a mild-voiced little-town guy with big-town ideas and level gray eyes and a heart even Houdini couldn figure out , how it is unlocked . And he can be on the way to Memphis , your Gratt Shafer can , and you discover you can stay alive and hate him and love him and want him even if it means you want him -- really want him -- dead . Because if you can then nobody else can either , nobody else can have him . For you don share him , not even with God . If it is love , you don . And I l take you with me . Even if that all the promise he ever gave or ever will give , the giving of it once was enough and you believed it then and you will always believe it , even when it is finally the only thing in the world you have left to believe , and the whole world is telling you that one was a lie . Even when he is on the way to Memphis you will still have the promise resting inside you like a gift , and it is he inside of you . And in a way the promise works out true , for whether he wants you or not , you go with him in your heart . You feel him every mile further away . You feel where he is and what he sees , and at night you feel when he is asleep or with the other woman , the one that never could love him the way you do , the one who got him because she didn particularly give a damn whether she got him or didn . And you know you will always wonder all of your life whether it was because you wanted him so bad that you didn get him , and you can feel nearly sorry enough to cry when you think of that other guy , the chump who begged you to marry him , the one with the plastered hair and the car he couldn afford and the too-shiny shoes . You think : `` Did he feel that way about me ? It comes to you that probably he did feel that way to let you use him like you did when you couldn have Gratt Shafer ; hat he must have since he was there like the radio for you to turn on or snap off when you got tired of him , that other guy . It dawns on you that instead of a lump to fill the seat across the bridge table from you , he was a man , and that because Gratt Shafer was making you miserable , you were passing it down to him , to Gratt Shafer substitute , that other guy . And you wonder if that is why the little man lost his job and his car and stayed drunk about a year before he straightened out and moved to St . Louis , where he got to be a big unhappy success . You wonder if he looks at his wife now and thinks of you . You wonder about the Christmas card with no name on it , and it comes to you that maybe it would have been better to have made somebody else happy if you couldn be happy yourself , to give somebody else the one they wanted -- to give them you . `` Damn the world , she thought . She looked out at the corn field , the great green deep acres of it rolled out like the sea in the field beyond the whitewashed fence bordering the grounds . The mayor envisioned factories there . Homes and factories and schools and a big wide federal highway , instead of peaceful corn to rest your eyes on while you tried to rest your heart , while you tried not to look at the balloon and the bandstand and the uniforms and the flash of the instruments . The bands were impatient , but they were the only ones . The others , the ones in the stands , were spellbound , for hearing the mayor was for them like listening to a symphony was for sophisticated folks in New York City . It was like being in the concert hall in the afternoon and hearing the piano virtuoso rehearsing . He was good and they knew that what he was doing for them he would do all over the United States some day . So they stayed quiet and hung not on what he said but on how he said it , not listening exactly , but rather , feeling . If a man was good , if he was going to be governor , you felt it and you wanted him to go on forever . You were sorry when he finished talking because while he was up there you were someone else and the world was something else too . It was a place full of courage and hope and you were part of it . You laughed and then your chest swelled and you felt you could cry for a little bit , and then a feeling hit you like a chill in your stomach and the goose bumps rippled along your arm . He hit the theme about dying to defend your country , and you were ready to do it right then , without a second thought . While he talked you wouldn trade being a West Tennessee farmer for being anything else in the whole damned world , no matter if it hadn , in six weeks , rained enough to wet a rat ass . She glanced at the man nodding beside her , a man with weather cracks furrowed into his lean cheeks , with powdery pale eyes reflecting all the droughts he had seen , reflecting the sky and the drought which must follow now in August -- yes , with eyes predicting the drought and here it was only June , only festival time again and thoughts of Gratt Shafer would not leave her . `` I should have stayed at the store , she thought . Back at the Factory-to-You with the other old maids , back there she was the youngest clerk and she was thirty-four , which made her young enough to resent the usual ideal working conditions , like the unventilated toilet with the door you had to hold shut while you sat down . There was no lock because Herman didn allow a lock . A lock on the toilet would encourage malingering and primping . The toilet hadn had a sincere scrubbing in years and there were things written on the walls of the little boxed-in place because you couldn keep the public out -- entirely . She could not count the times Herman had rapped on the door , just a couple of bangs that shook the whole damned closet and might , someday , break away the pipe connections from the wall . The two little bangs meant that he was getting impatient to have a crowd of customers waited on and that if he had to he would jerk open the door and drag out , by the opposite door handle which she would be clutching , whichever-the-hell clerk it was who thought she could waste so much store time on the pot . And the hours were six-thirty in the morning until eleven at night on Saturdays and during sales , and there were no chairs and you couldn smoke and the cooling was overhead fans and there was no porter or janitor . 
Among us , we three handled quite a few small commissions , from spot drawings for advertising agencies uptown to magazine work and quick lettering jobs . Each of us had his own specialty besides . George did wonderful complicated pen-and-ink drawings like something out of a medieval miniature : hundreds of delicate details crammed into an eight-by-ten sheet and looking as if they had been done under a jeweler glass . He also drew precise crisp spots , which he sold to various literary and artistic journals , The New Yorker , for instance , or Esquire . I did book jackets and covers for paperback reprints : naked girls huddling in corners of dingy furnished rooms while at the doorway , daring the cops to take him , is the guy in shirt sleeves clutching a revolver . The book could be The Brothers Karamazov , but it would still have the same jacket illustration . I remember once I did a jacket for Magpie Press ; he book was a fine historical novel about Edward 3 , , and I did a week of research to get the details just right : the fifteenth-century armor , furnishings , clothes . I even ferreted out the materials from which shields were made -- linden wood covered with leather -- so I get the light reflections accurate . McKenzie , the art editor , took one look at my finished sketch and said , `` Nothing doing , Rufus . In the first place , it static ; n the second place , it doesn look authentic ; nd in the third place , it would cost a fortune to reproduce in the first place -- you e got six colors there including gold . I said , `` Mr . McKenzie , it is as authentic as careful research can make it . He said , `` That may be , but it isn authentic the way readers think . They know from their researches into television and the movies that knights in the middle ages had beautiful flowing haircuts like Little Lord Fauntleroy , and only the villains had beards . And girls couldn have dressed like that -- it isn transparent enough . In the end , I did the same old picture , the naked girl and the guy in the doorway , only I put a Lord Byron shirt on the guy , gave him a sword instead of a pistol , and painted in furniture from the stills of a costume movie . McKenzie was as happy as a clam . `` That authenticity , he said . As for Donald , he actually sold paintings . We all painted in our spare time , and we had all started as easel painters with scholarships , but he was the only one of us who made any regular money at it . Not much ; e sold perhaps three or four a year , and usually all to Joyce Monmouth or her friends . He had style , a real inner vision of his very own . It was strange stuff -- it reminded me of the pictures of a child , but a child who has never played with other kids and has lived all its life with adults . There was the freshness of color , the freedom of perception , the lack of self-consciousness , but with a twist that made the forms leap from the page and smack you in the eye . We used to kid him by saying he only painted that way because he was so nearsighted . It may have been true for all I know , because his glasses were like the bottoms of milk bottles , but it didn prevent the paintings from being exciting . He also had , at times , an uncanny absent-minded air like a sleepwalker ; e would look right through you while you were talking to him , and if you said , `` For Christ sake , Donald , you e got Prussian blue all over your shirt , he would smile , and nod , and an hour later the paint would be all over his pants as well . Mrs . Monmouth thought of him as her discovery , and she paid two to three hundred dollars for a painting . It was all gravy , and Donald didn need much to live on ; one of us did . We shared the expenses of the studio , and we all lived within walking distance of it , in cheap lodgings of one kind or another . Attending the life class was my idea -- or rather , Askington idea , but I was ripe for it , and the other two wouldn have gone if I hadn talked them into it . I wanted to paint again . I hadn done a serious picture in almost a year . It wasn just the pressure of work , although that was the excuse I often used , even to myself . It was the kind of work I was doing , the quality of the ambition it awoke in me , that kept me from painting . I kept saying , `` If I could just build up a reputation for myself , make some real money , get to be well known as an illustrator -- like Peter Askington , for instance -- then I could take some time off and paint . Askington was a kind of goal I set myself ; had admired him long before I talked to him . It looked to me as though he had everything an artist could want , joy in his work , standing in the profession , a large and steady income . The night we first met , at one of Mrs . Monmouth giant parties , he was wearing a brown cashmere jacket with silver buttons and a soft pink Viyella shirt ; nstead of a necktie he wore a leather bolo drawn through a golden ring in which was set a lump of pale pure jade . This set his tone : richness of texture and color , and another kind of richness as well , for his clothing and decorations would have paid the Brush-off rent for a year . He was fifteen years older than I -- forty-four -- but full of spring and sparkle . He didn look like what I thought of as an old man , and his lively and erudite speech made him seem even younger . He was one of the most prominent magazine illustrators in America ; ou saw one of his paintings on the cover of one or another of the slick national magazines every month . Life had included him in its `` Modern American Artists series and had photographed him at his studio in the East Sixties ; he corner of it you could see in the photograph looked as though it ought to have Velasquez in it painting the royalty of Spain . I had a long talk with him . We went into Mrs . Monmouth library , which had low bookshelves all along the walls , and above them a Modigliani portrait , a Jackson Pollock twelve feet long , and a gorgeous Miro with a yellow background , that looked like an inscription from a Martian tomb . The fireplace had tiles made for Mrs . Monmouth by Picasso himself . Like certain expensive restaurants , just sitting there gave you the illusion of being wealthy yourself . In the course of our talk , Askington mentioned that he spent part of each week studying . `` By yourself ? I asked . `` No , I take classes with different people , he said . `` I don think I e reached the point , yet , where I can say I know everything I ought to know about the craft . Besides , it important to the way a painter thinks that he should move in a certain atmosphere , an atmosphere in which he may absorb the ideas of other masters , as Durer went to Italy to meet Bellini and Mantegna . He made a circle with his thumb and fingers . `` Painting isn this big , you know . It doesn embrace only the artist , alone before his easel . It is as large as all of art , interdependent , varied , multitudinous . He threw his arms wide , his face shining . `` The artist is like a fragment of a mosaic -- no , he is more than that , a virtuoso performer in some vast philharmonic . One of these days , I going to organize a gigantic exhibition that will span everything that being painted these days , from extreme abstract expressionism to extreme photorealism , and then you l be able to see at a glance how much artists have in common with each other . The eye is all , inward or outward . Ah , what a title for the exhibition : The Eye is All ! `` What do you study ? I asked . I was fascinated ; ust listening to him made me feel intelligent . `` I studying anatomy with Burns , he replied . `` Maybe you know him . He teaches at the Manhattan School of Art . I nodded . I had studied with Burns ten years before , during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street . Burns and I had not loved each other . `` I also studying enameling with Hajime Iijima , he went on , `` and twice a week I go to a life class taught by Pendleton . `` Osric Pendleton ? I said . `` My God , is he still alive ? He must be a million years old . I went to a retrospective of his work when I was eighteen , and I thought he was a contemporary of Cezanne . `` Not quite . Askington laughed . `` He about sixty , now . Still painting , still a kind of modern impressionist , beautiful canvases of mountains and farms . He even makes the city look like one of Thoreau hangouts . I e always admired him , and when I heard he was taking a few pupils , I went to him and joined his class . `` Yes , it sounds great , I said , `` but suppose you don think of yourself as an impressionist painter ? `` You e missing the point , he said . `` He has the magical eye . And he is a great man . Contact with him is stimulating . And that the trouble with so many artists today . They lack stimulation . They sit alone in their rooms and try to paint , and only succeed in isolating themselves still farther from life . That one of the reasons art is becoming a useless occupation . In the Middle Ages , in the Renaissance , right up to the early nineteenth century , the painter was a giant in the world . He was an artisan , a man who studied his trade and developed his craftsmanship the way a goldsmith or a wood carver did . He filled a real need , showing society what it looked like , turning it inside out , portraying its wars and its leaders , its ugliness and its beauties , reflecting its profound religious impulses . He was a propagandist -- they weren afraid of the word , then -- satirist , nature lover , philosopher , scientist , what you will , a member of every party and of no party . But look at us today ! We hold safe little jobs illustrating tooth-paste ads or the salacious incidents in trivial novels , and most of our easel painting is nothing but picking the fluff out of the navel so it can be contemplated in greater purity . A bunch of amateur dervishes ! What we need is to get back to the group , to learning and apprenticeship , to the cafe and the school . He could certainly talk . The upshot of the evening was that I got the address of Pendleton studio -- or rather , of the studio in which he gave his classes , for he didn work there himself -- and joined the life class , which met every Tuesday and Thursday from ten to twelve in the morning . It was an awkward hour , but I didn have to punch any time clock , and it only meant that sometimes I had to stay a couple of hours later at the drawing board to finish up a job . After a short time , both George and Donald joined the class with me so they wouldn feel lonely , and we used to hang a sign on the door of the Brush-off reading out to work . It was mostly for the benefit of the mailman , because hardly anybody else ever visited us . In a way , Askington was right . `` Stimulating was the word for it . I don know that it was always as rewarding as I had expected it to be . Partly , it was because Pendleton himself wasn what I anticipated . I had come prepared to worship at the feet of this classic , and he turned out to be a rather bitter old man who smelled of dead cigars . No , that isn quite fair . Actually , there was a lot of force in him , which is why I kept on in that class instead of quitting after a week . 
Such a little thing to start with -- the car registration . `` Ida , where is the car license ? She asked . `` I can find it in the glove compartment . `` Via must have it , I answered readily enough , recalling her last visit . `` Via , she was frowning . `` Why should Via have it ? Had she forgotten she had signed the car away , that whatever they mutually owned had been divided among the children ? I was silent . I didn want to stir things up . `` I drive my own car by courtesy of Via ? `` I sure she turn it over to you , if you rather . You know that . She looked as if she were accusing me of some fraud . `` She must have taken the registration when she went to Walter . I l call her . `` No , thank you . I want nothing of Via . Why should this suddenly assail her ? Walter was giving me checks for my pay , the household bills . Had she been in such a turmoil that this had slipped her mind ? `` What a fool I e been , she said quietly . `` I knew all this , but I paid no attention . I don even own the house I standing in . I was so sure it was all temporary that we would all embrace , and then the lawyer would tear up all those things `` It narrows down down down and finally there is no way out . If I am not to be Mrs . Salter I am nothing . I suppose I should have paid attention to that half-murmured remark , but it seemed one of those extreme statements women under stress indulge in . I love you , I hate you , I feel like killing you and myself , and in the same sequence I love you I think you e the most wonderful the most noble and so on and on , meanwhile eating a good breakfast and dinner and enjoying living . So I went about my business . I made a lemon sponge , a light dessert , roasted a chicken , parboiled some frozen vegetables , so there would be something nice in the icebox for the weekend . `` Don bother , Ida , she said . `` I have these appointments in town for Saturday , and I l probably spend Sunday with Dolly or the Thaxters . At last , I thought , she recovering her spirits . With this movie-to-be in London , and new faces about her there , she would soon be a more tranquil , a wiser person , all the better for her stay out here . I felt more cheerful , as if I had had a part in bringing her through to a greater tolerance of herself . And I went back to my own cottage to live my own little patch of life . It was foggy that evening , but the path to my house was so well grooved that I could feel my way , accustomed as I was to the dense mists that rise from the sun-warmed palisades of the river and sometimes last for days . In the morning the fog was still thick so that to go to the village I crept along with my headlights full on . I did notice a twinkle of light from the big house through the woods but as I had left a light on in my own house because of the fog I assumed Mrs . Salter had done the same before she left for town . I did my shopping , had my dentist appointment , and from there I went to the women lunch at our parish church where we discussed plans for the annual Christmas bazaar , so that dusk was beginning to gather when I drove home in the late afternoon . But the next day -- Sunday . Why , when I drove down to church , didn it speak to me , seeing the lights still on and the day crisp and clear ? Prisoners brought to the dock accused of murder or accident say they cannot remember , and reading the accounts of their testimony you cannot believe that the mind can remove , absent itself , unsee . When I came back from church at noon Mrs . Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway . Even at a car length I could sense that something was wrong , and so I followed her up to the turnaround in front of the house . Dolly Engisch was waiting there on the steps and she came running toward us . `` She nowhere , nowhere ! She screamed , and both women ran up to the house , and I followed . The search began , in all the rooms , running upstairs , down , opening closets , talking , exclaiming in rushes and gasps . Everything was as I had left it the night before last -- her portfolio and bag for town , her lingerie and dress and shoes laid out only her mink coat was missing . And she . Then the telephoning began . I , who until that day before had been Mrs . Salter friend , her equal , was the servant now . It was Dolly and Mrs . Thaxter who were calling Via , everybody . And when they spoke they spoke to each other and not to me . And after I brought them sandwiches and coffee I had to go back to my place in the kitchen and wait . Sitting in the kitchen I recalled every word Mrs . Salter said that could have been a sign to me . `` If I am not to be Mrs . Salter then I am nothing . Why didn that alarm me then ? And when she returned from taking her guests back to New York she had said , `` All they talked about was Harvie Harvie this , Harvie that When they know the truth will they drop away from me , will I become a nothing ? And then I remembered a few years before after their return from a short trip to Rome I had heard her boast , over and over again , `` On the boat people liked me for myself . I had made a habit of calling her at night from my cottage , just to check . The last night I had called , but the line was always busy and it reassured me . I assumed it was one of those hour-long conversations with Dolly or Constance , she comfortable in bed . But it seemed not from what they were saying . Then was it a final desperate plea from her , to whom ? Hanging on and on past any man patience some final stab of conclusion ? She was found the day after at the bottom of the cliff . I tried to believe that what must have happened was that , restless , disturbed by this telephone call or whatever , she walked out in the night , as she had a habit of doing . Sometimes she took the path that winds up around my cottage to the walk at the edge of the cliff . It so romantic up there , she used to say , with the broad river gleaming in its moontrack like an enormous dark mirror and all the sounds of the night , so poetic . With all that warm rain and the fog it might have been as simple as a loosened rock , a misstep . But I didn really think it was as simple as that , nor did anyone else . When a fisherman brought her up in his arms , still , small , as if she were a child asleep , I began to shudder with a terrible excitement , almost triumphant , that I still cannot account for . Was it a hysterical release from the long strain of vigilance of those weeks ? That at last the vigilance , the will gives way ? Or what was it that , before Via , Sonny , Walter and all , I began almost to dance with shuddering and cry out , `` I knew she do it ! I knew ! Everyone stared at me and drew back . Their eyes turned cold and accusing , even Via . And they have never changed . At the same time that I thought I understood her at long last and pitied her , underneath this knowing had there burned unquenched by my pity a fire of hate , an enduring envy that burst out in that ghastly outcry ? Was that what had given way in me ? Even now I am appalled at how little anyone knows of what they really are . It is absurd of course to say that that one exclamation estranged me from the family I considered my very own , but there it hangs , a cooling void that broke our close connection with each other . At the time I was filled with self-pity at this separation , but in the years since I have come to understand that the sight of me was painful to them after that outcry . In my person they would always remember that last long time of me alone with her , so if they told themselves that I could have prevented it , I can understand that by now and love them still , because everyone must justify , have a scapegoat for what is not to be borne . It is not their avoidance that rankles ; t is when I meet someone who was a close friend of the family , and therefore of mine , and they nod to me so coolly and walk away , that it hurts . I could tell them , but no one ever asked , why I had cried out so triumphantly at the sight of her body . No , I forget Mrs . Mathias , who had been away visiting a married daughter when it happened . She haunted me ; he persisted in explaining how and why she had advised Mrs . Salter to return to the country . `` We all feel guilty , I turned away from her coldly . `` It was nobody fault . She overplayed her hand . `` What do you mean ? She frowned . `` Why put such a high value on being top dog ? I added . It was coarse , almost insulting , this harsh appraisal , and she has never come to see me since . But suppose she had not taken Mrs . Mathias ' advice and lived on like thousands of women in towns , dispossessed of love , hanging on to makeshifts , and altogether and finally arid . If she chose , and in that final decision discarded , what , above all , all of us value , life itself , must she not have risen to her fullest height , and transcending her murky self , felt at last the passion of a great moral decision ? If they say I could have stopped her it is because they are ignorant of her last weeks of self-examination , her search into herself and its conclusions . Yes , I had cried out that I knew she do it , but without my fully realizing it at the time , it was a cry of triumph for her , praise at her deliverance from pettiness and greed -- and guilt . She was finally at rest in truth , of her own proud free choice . At rest with my darling Ellen , the first Mrs . Salter . Mr . Salter came home . The funeral service was in the house , the Methodist minister , how clean and glistening his eyeglasses and his neat body standing beside that coffin with that doll inside , a stranger speaking to strangers the old sacred words , and the rain drumming incessantly in accompaniment , seven days of relentless rain that turned the ground to mud so the burial had to be postponed . I waited . Then Via called to say they had decided to cremate her -- as they had Ellen , the thought leaped to my mind -- and did I want to meet her at the funeral home the next morning . The coffin stood on trestles in a corner of the long low dimly lit funeral parlor , on its dark shining surface the sheaf of white roses I had ordered . I knelt , just for decency I thought at the time , but found myself whispering , `` Our Father which Art in Heaven And it was only after that that something unlocked in me and I felt a grief . Via was in the parking lot when I went outside . Together we waited in her car until the hearse moved out and we followed it down into the heavy traffic of New Jersey . By the time we arrived and entered the building sacred music was already swelling out into the chapel-like auditorium with its discreet symbols of religious faiths . Again I felt impelled to kneel , and reached back and pulled Via down . Something would come into her heart if nothing else the sounds of Bach would give her some healing . 
`` I had a rather small place of my own . A nice bachelor apartment in a place called the Lancaster Arms . `` Uhhu , she said , hardly listening as she studied her left eyelid . `` And then I had another place farther downtown I used as a studio . `` Uhhu . `` I not a man who has many close intimate friends , Carla , he said , wanting her to know all about him . `` Oh , I drink with newspaper people . I think I was what you might call a convivial man , and yet it was when I was alone in my studio , doing my work , that I really felt alive . But I think a man needs at least one intimate friend to communicate with . Pausing , he waited for her to turn , to ask a question . She showed no interest at all in the life he had led back home , and it hurt him a little . `` Well , what about you , Carla ? `` Me ? She asked , turning slowly . `` What about me ? `` Did you make friends easily ? `` Umm , uhhu . `` Somehow I imagine that as you grew up you were alone a lot . How about it ? `` I guess so , she said taking a Kleenex from her purse . When she had wiped some of the lipstick from her mouth , she stared solemnly at her image in the mirror . `` Are your people still alive ? He asked , trying to touch a part of her life Alberto hadn discussed ; o he could have something of her for himself . `` You talk so well , Carla , he went on . `` You seem to have read so much , you have a natural gift for words , he added , trying to flatter her vanity . `` You must have been good at history at school . Where did you go to school ? `` What is this ? She asked , turning suddenly . `` Don you know all about me by this time ? My name Carla Caneli . This is my town . I sleep with you . You know something more about me every day , don you ? Would you be happier if I made up some stories about my life , told you some lies ? Why are you trying to worry me ? `` I not trying to worry you . `` Well , all right then . The cleansing tissues she had been using had been falling on the floor , and he got up and picked up one , then another , hoping she would notice what he was doing . At home he had been a clean orderly man , and now he had to hide his annoyance . Was she just naturally sloppy about everything but her physical appearance ? He wondered . Would he have to clean up after her every day , clean the kitchen , the bathroom , and get down on his knees and scrub the kitchen floor , then hang up her dresses , pick up her stockings , make the bed while she lay around ? He straightened up , ready to vent his exasperation , then grew afraid . If he dwelt on the indignities he suffered he would lose all respect for her , and without the respect he might lose his view of her , too . `` What the matter ? She asked suddenly . `` Nothing . Nothing at all , he said quietly . `` Let go out . `` Are those the only shoes you have , Sam ? `` What the matter with them ? `` The heavy thick soles . Look at them . `` They e an expensive English shoe for walking around a lot . I like them . `` Sam , no one around here wears such heavy soles . Can you get another pair ? `` Maybe I could , he said , surprised that she could turn from herself and notice anything about him . `` I l get an elegant pair of thin-soled Italian shoes tomorrow , Carla . `` And I don know why you want to go on wearing that outfit , she said , making a face . `` What the matter with it ? He had put on the gray jacket and the dark-gray slacks and the fawn-colored shirt he had worn that first night in Rome when he had encountered her on the street . `` Oh , Sam . You look like a tweedy Englishman . Can you wear something else and look a little more as though you belonged ? `` I don mind at all , he said , delighted with her attention . Changing his clothes , he put on his dark-blue flannel suit , and laid away the gray jacket with the feeling that he might be putting it aside for good . But it was a hopeful sign , he told himself . She no longer wanted anything about him to remind her of the circumstances of their meeting that first night in Parioli . That day they loafed around , just getting the feel of the city . They looked at the ruins of the old Roman wall on the lower Via Veneto , then they went to the Farnese Gardens . She had some amusing scandal about the Farneses in the old days . Then they took a taxi to Trastevere . `` There a church you should see , she said . And when they stood by the fountain in the piazza looking at Santa Maria he had to keep a straight face , not letting on he had been there with Alberto . He let her tell him all about the church . Then they had dinner . All evening she was eloquent and pleased with herself . When they got home at midnight she was tired out . And in the morning when he woke up at ten the church bells were ringing . He had never heard so many bells , and as he lay there listening , he thought of her scolding him for his remarks when he had looked up at the obelisk and the church at the top of the Spanish Steps . It was a good thing that she clung to her religion , he thought . She might like to take him to St . Peter . `` Carla , wake up , he said shaking her . `` It ten o lock . Aren you going out to mass ? You could take me to St . Peter . `` Uhhu , she muttered . `` Come on , you l be late . `` I think I l sleep in this morning , she said drowsily , and as she snuggled against him , he wondered if she ever went to church . Why did he want her to go to church ? He wondered Probably because it was a place where she might get a feeling of certainty and security . It would be good for her . It was too bad he had no feeling himself for church . Not his poor mother fault . She would have been better off if she had stuck to her Bible . As for himself , he just didn have the temperament for it . From the time he had been at college he had achieved a certain tranquility and composure by accepting the fact that there were certain things he could never know . Then he thought of those Old Testament figures on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel . Just figures out of a tribal folklore . Could he honestly believe it would be good for Carla to have those old prophets gripping her imagination now ? Being a woman though , she would take only what she needed from church . It was too bad he wasn a Catholic himself . Or a Protestant , or one of those amusing dogmatic atheists , or a strict orthodox Communist . What was the matter with him that they all wearied him ? It was the times , he was sure . All the ideologies changing from day to day , right under his eyes , so how could a man look to any one of them for an enlargement of his freedom ? It was all too wearying . Look somewhere else . But where ? Just the same , he thought , pondering over it , it would be a good thing for a girl like Carla if she got up and went to church . A half hour later he got her up to go out for breakfast so the Ferraros , hearing them hurrying down the stairs , would think they were going to a late mass . It seemed to him that if the Ferraros felt sure of them , could place them , it would help him to feel more sure of himself with Carla . `` Since we e having coffee with them this afternoon , he said , `` I think I l ask the daughter if we can pay her to come in every day to clean for us . And he waited for her to say , `` Oh , no , I can do it , Sam . There so little to do . `` Why not ? She said . `` I not good at that kind of thing . `` This afternoon let take an air with them . Let be fine superior people of great dignity , he said as if he were joking . `` If you find it necessary , Sam , go ahead , she said , turning on the stair . `` I am what I am . I can help it . Her words remained with him , worrying him for hours . He didn know how she would behave with other people . When they walked into the Ferraro apartment , the old lady , bowing and smiling , said softly . `` Ciao , and put out her hand . Her little brown face wrinkled up , her brown eyes gleamed , and with her little gestures she said all the courteous things . Agnese , smiling too , said , `` llo , and then more slowly , `` I am happy . And they sat down and began their little coffee party . The Ferraros offered them biscuits with the coffee . Acting only as interpreter Carla , her hands folded on her lap , was utterly impersonal . She would turn to them , then turn to him , then turn again . Watching her , he felt like a spectator at a tennis game , with the ball being bounced back and forth . Signora Ferraro , bobbing her head encouragingly , asked Sam about Canada , having a special interest . Carla translated . The old woman had a nephew from North Italy , a poor boy from a lumber mill who had got tired of the seasonal unemployment , and who had migrated to Canada to work on the railway . For a year the boy had lived in the bush in a boxcar . Did many of Sam countrymen live in boxcars in the bush ? Had Sam ever lived in a boxcar ? She wanted to know . Regretfully Sam explained that he had no experience with boxcars . Just the same , the old woman said , she would write to her nephew in his boxcar and tell him she had met a nice man from his adopted country . And Sam thanked her , and hoped he might meet her nephew back home , and asked her if she had any further news of the Pope . A very great Pope , this one , the old woman explained , her black eyes sparkling . An intellectual . But very mystical too . It was said that he had had a vision . Just as thousands that day in Portugal had seen the sun dancing in the sky , he had seen the same thing later in his own garden , and she turned to Agnese for confirmation . Agnese had been sitting quietly , listening with the serenity of the unaware . Now a little flush came on her pale homely face and enchantment in her eyes . The Holy Father would die soon , she said to Carla , so she could translate for Sam , although he had a brilliant doctor , a man who did not need the assistance of those doctors offered by the great rulers of the world . Yes , the Pope could die and quickly be made a saint . No , he was indeed a saint now . Nodding approvingly and swelling with importance , the old lady whispered confidentially . There was a certain discontent among the cardinals . The Pope , in the splendor of his great intellect , had neglected them a little . There would be changes made , and Signor Raymond should understand that when the Pope died it was like the end of a regime in Rome . Jobs would be lost and new faces would become prominent . Did Signor Raymond understand ? Indeed he did , Sam said solemnly , trying to get Carla eye . Surely she could see that these women were her Italians , too , he thought . Devout , orthodox and plain like a family she might meet in Brooklyn or Malta or Ireland . But Carla eyes were on Agnese whose glowing face and softening eyes gave her a look of warmth and happiness . And Carla , watching in wonder , turned to Sam . `` It means so much to her . It like a flame , I guess , she said in a dreamy tone . 
But one night Dookiyoon moved in the direction of the women lodge , where Shades of Night had gone to purify herself . With the blue flesh of night touching him he stood under a gentle hill caressing the flageolet with his lips , making it whisper . He saw her emerge suddenly , coming in her unhesitant fashion , her back stiff , her head erect , facing with contempt the night and whatever she would encounter , as if in her extreme disdain and indifference she would pass by all the outraged looks of those whom she might approach . In her dark , scornful fashion she proceeded to her destination , afraid of nothing , not even the evil spirits which kept her company in her time of bleeding . Seeing her come , he caught his breath , feeling his heart bounce in him , and turned away , afraid now . Even he , wanting her , afraid of her and not knowing how to press his suit , feared the evil presences in her metabolism more . His breath caught , and , trembling , he closed his eyes and stumbled off . Going , he saw as often before some queer , hideous yellow face over his head , shining and weird like the old images which had invested him at other times like those that appear sometimes near the eyeballs when they are perhaps pressed by the thumbs . He cried out to her , his back turned . Then he fled , not waiting to see if she minded him or took notice of his cry . But she heard him go . Yet she did not hesitate and only turned slightly , her neck tall as she looked in his direction , and continued on her way toward the end of the camp . Elsewhere others heard and stopped and waited , the women peering from their lodges then gathering in small , curious clusters . Early Spring came from her bed , from beside her half-drunk husband , Walitzee , and stood at the entrance way to her lodge hearing the mild commotion , the sound of hushed voices . Standing there she saw Shades of Night come through the trees and stop beside the lodge , silent , almost imperious , her body taut , simply standing without speaking or moving while the wife of Walitzee waited , perhaps denying the dread that moved in her . When at last she could suffer the insult no longer , nor face the girl scorn , she said in a voice overloud : `` I shall call your father ! Go back where you can bring no harm , or I will go and get the old man from his bed so he can see your shame ! But the girl said only , `` Tell him I am here , that I have come . And it was not Pile of Clouds she meant . But now with real anger at last , something proud and indignant , Early Spring stood like a she wolf before her den and cried , `` I will not shriek at you ! I will tell you to go , not begging . Telling you ! And unsheathing the knife she used for curing hides she stepped away from the lodge , holding the knife at her side . `` You bring only wickedness , she said and it was not to a child any longer but to another woman who had come to skirt her lodge with the cunning hunger of a wild animal . Speaking in a low voice of loathing she went up to the girl , who stood with the same upright , scornful bearing and did not even look at the knife . `` Go take helsq yokom , your evil spirit , to the young boys , the woman said . `` They do not have to face battle . I will not let your evil in . I will simply kill you first . Now go ! The other women had come close now , their voices murmuring together until they stood buzzing in an angry knot , their threats mingling , rising , nagging at each other , each trying to make her indignation and anger felt . They picked up sticks and hurled them at the girl . The sticks fell like a shower around her and she felt them sting her flesh and send tiny points of pain along her thighs . They were all shouting at her as if she were the embodiment of the evil she brought . But she did not move , taking the words and the sticks in that old defiance of her extreme youth until suddenly Pile of Clouds came howling among them , swinging a great bullhide whip . `` Go back to your lodges ! He shouted . `` A pack of dogs makes less noise ! He made the long whip sing and snap around their heads so that they ran screaming , some tripping over themselves in their flight . And Early Spring seized the whip and said : `` If you must flog someone , let it be her , your daughter . Drive the demons out of her and teach her to stay away from my husband ! But the old man turned on her , jerking the whip from her hand . `` Get into your hovel ! He spat . `` Go back to that double-married man of yours who so parades his fine body among the young women . Keep him back , if you must tell me what to do . I will be the one to confront my daughter , not the wife of him who leads her to sin ! She retreated before the naked shame in the old man and the fury beyond it and sank into the darkness of her lodge where Walitzee stirred , mumbling , sitting up in a half stupor to say : `` What worrisome thing happens ? I thought I dreamed of wolves fighting . But she went to him and pressed herself against his nakedness , smelling the stale odor of the whisky he had stolen from TuHulHulZote . She said , `` There is nothing that concerns you here . Lie back and go to sleep . But do not dream . Do not let the wicked spirits enter your brain . He sank back , sighing , and was soon asleep again . Outside , the old man , beyond all the curses of the spirits his daughter bore , went to her and twisted the gnarled talons of his fingers in her hair and turned her and pushed her rudely ahead of him into the trees where the moon sent out a thousand arms . And , shoving her against a spruce , her back to him , he retreated with the whip and made it whine and crack in the damp air , shortening its arc until it narrowed to her flesh and the sound of it snarled and cracked , settling its own cruel demons on her shoulders while she stood as unchanged , as dark and motionless as ever , her eyes open and staring at the pale delineaments of the bark so close to her face . She said to him , her father , `` How was I begotten , in pain or joy ? Is it for me to be forbidden the flesh you made grow on me ? They all know your foolish name ! She stared at the pale tracings on the tree , hearing her breath refracted from it , her face close and touching at time the rough edges of the bark . She felt the lash bite and heard her father say in crazed monosyllables words which had no meaning , like , `` unnnt ! Sssshoo ! The sounds of an animal in rage and despair . Suddenly the lash stopped fighting the air and she heard Pile of Clouds say in his high , quavering voice : `` Did you follow me to see my shame ? Move from the line or I will settle the whip on you . Move ! Do you hear the anger of the whip whine ? Turning , the girl saw Dookiyoon standing between , his narrow shoulders unbent , his arms hanging long and resigned . He said , `` Let me take her blows , for there are demons in me too . Then , without knowing why , she found herself running from them , fleeing wildly through the trees , dodging her own shadows until she came to a little hollow in the rocky ground with a big stone in the center behind which she knelt and hid , listening to the madness of her heart and wanting for once to cry . For a while the young men waited outside the lodge of TuHulHulZote , glorying in his harsh language as he talked with himself . He shouted like a hoarse old mastiff , his hair stiff and bristling . He ranted and prophesied the doom of his enemies , walking in circles in and out of his living place , drinking stolen whisky in great , gasping draughts until finally , incoherent and sick , he fell into his own oblivion . He amused the young men who had been silent long enough . But they could taste the appeasement of violence and retribution through his antics . Now they moved , rubbing their flesh alive again , disdaining the gloom they saw in the faces around them . They came out and held their games and races . It was they who held the future in their hands . They went into the sun together and paraded grandly in their war clothes , painting their faces with the sacred attis dug far off in the cave of skeletons . They danced the paxam wildly at night , the war dance , and dipped their arrowheads in the venom of rattlesnakes and rode their horses in swift maneuvers , firing their few guns in unison at some indeterminate signal . Walitzee was among them , and Sarpsis , and they wore red blankets which flew like broad wings in the air of their passing . And a very young one , Swan Necklace , tried to emulate them and followed timidly . Yellow Wolf was there , nephew of the young chief by an older brother long dead , in whom also the disordered chemistries of youth worked . He would spring bolt upright suddenly after sitting quietly with inaction , because something had boiled over in his fermenting juices . All the young men , Alokut among them , challenged them in matched racing . They raced and maneuvered for war , swinging their horses in single file and then abreast like cavalry . At times they would ride frenziedly through the camp , letting the women see their courage , how handsome they were in their regalia . Then again they would stand in circles making other preparations . They combed their hair and streaked it at the part and greased the bangs so that the hair above their foreheads stood rigid like the tails of sage hens making love . Walitzee whitened his leggings with clay , knowing the girl watched from her place in the trees . He saw himself in a superior reflection , and he was as a speeding arrow from the taut bow , hurtling with a mad grace , his maleness shining and scented with meadow rue . He was always aware of the women eyes which followed him , admiring him . And the suspicious , envenomed eyes of Pile of Clouds . And those of Early Spring , haunted and now full of hurt and envy . He felt so much like laughing ; ven like shouting and crying out from the hilltops from which he could descend as an eagle in a mad caper from the cliffs . He and Sarpsis planned a great parade with the young men . They would give one final testimony of their challenge to let the people see their arrogance . They would ride with streaming amulets , their colors ripening in the sun , shouting the last bellicosity of a nation in the throes of death . And so the sun came up again and for a moment its color was the young men blood , shifting then into the full heat and outcry which ran with their hearts . They mounted their horses and rode off into the hills . The , young chief stared at the wall of his lodge , , listening . The sound rose on the other side of the hills , vanished and rose again and he could imagine the mad , disheveled hoofs of the Appaloosas , horses the white men once had called the Dogs of Hell . He saw them in fleet images as they came rolling and now burst across the ridge . Standing then with the others , peering into the sun , he saw the bright , multicolored legion , their hair flying like dark banners , only the thunder , the roll of drums , the mad cacophony of the hoofs accompanying them . They leaned into the wind and seemed like one thousand-legged monster hurtling and plunging until suddenly they rose straight in their saddles and in one terrifying voice shouted , ejaculated their grotesque cry of war . 
She was moving through a screen of hemlocks , in among the white birch and maples . The sounds from the quarry began to pulse in her ears . She stood , once more listening . She had never been here at this hour . She felt as if some dark , totally unfamiliar shape would clutch at her arm ; ut she found the path she always used , the stubs of branches she had broken , those she had pushed aside ; nd she walked easily now , and more slowly , until she could see the dark glisten of water beneath her . If I ever committed suicide , she thought , I would dive straight down from here -- and no one would find me for days . She smiled , and expertly let herself downward , holding this known root or that , her sneakers sliding in the leaves . She jumped out onto the flat expanse of rock and , seating herself , shook her short-cut brown hair and tilted her chin far upward . The reedy music of the frogs had faded , but presently it began again , growing in volume until it was vibrant . Julia felt at peace and drew her legs up and clasped her hands tightly around the bent knees . She had accomplished a miracle . This was her place . The hour couldn change it . Only -- only -- her thoughts were a little strange . They were becoming confused . Perhaps it was because it was so late , and because she had no business to be here now . She was thinking of Paul a few weeks ago , in the Easter holidays , with her at one of those awful Friday Evening Dancing Class parties her mother had made her attend . `` Hello , Julie , how are you ? And then off he went so casually , to someone else with breasts better developed , more obvious in a lower-cut dress , someone without a mouthful of wire bands and an inability to find words that would hold him . I wish he was with me now , she thought , and that we were both the ages we are and doing what was once only pretense and acute embarrassment . Oh God ! I wish I were older or younger , Julia Bentley thought . I wish so much someone loved me . George Rawlings remembered seeing the door open sometime during the night -- Millie , in a white robe , standing like a ghost at the threshold . She had vanished ; e must have slept again . He was staring at the blue china lamp left on beside him . It seemed too much trouble even to reach for the switch ; ut of course the impossible effort of leaving would have to be made on this Monday morning . This room was like a prison . He would not be indebted to Sam ! Below him , as if at the end of some remote tunnel , he heard the humming of a vacuum cleaner . His fingers fumbled across the bandages . They had left both of his eyes uncovered . Well , he told himself , let put the show on the road . He was walking across to the bathroom . He drank a glass of water and gripped the sink with both hands . A fearful pain had come from his head , as if the water were coursing up through the blood vessels and expanding them . He recognized his jacket and trousers . The fabric was dark ; he stains weren too apparent ; nd there were his shoes , thank God , but his shirt was one terrible mess . He shivered , and then tore away the blood-soaked parts and wound the rest around his neck like a scarf . Sam would be amazed to find him gone . Millie would have to understand . She must have put his clothes in the closet . He found a lump rising in his throat because of that one simple act of tidiness . He was on the verge of tears . Alex Poldowski -- in a fashion he owed a debt to that effete gentleman . At least Alex had told him he wasn dying . Perhaps George Rawlings would be better off dead . What time was it ? He peered at his wristwatch . Strange , it was still running . A quarter to seven . Too early for a vacuum cleaner , but probably Sam wanted the whole house in order before he came downstairs . He was kneeling to tie his shoelaces . His fingers felt absurdly thick and clumsy . He rose slowly and looked into the mirror on the inside of the closet door . He barely knew himself . This was some freak , two strands of adhesive tape across his nose , like ugly roots from the mass of gauze , suddenly moist over his cheekbones . The surface , however , was perfectly white . He was drinking another glass of water . It was after seven o lock . He was supposed to be in court this afternoon , at City Hall . Who would take over ? He have to think , but the main thing , the imperative necessity , was to leave before Sam Bentley was up and about , and before Millie detained him with sympathy . He entered the hallway . He was actually walking down the stairs . A plane up in the sky , above the clouds , and this freakish wreck of a man desperately trying to get away . `` Father , is that you ? The voice issued from the cavern of the hall below . George did not reply . `` Is that you , Father ? Who there ? For a moment he felt like a thief discovered . Then Julia appeared under the arch leading to the dining room . She stood gazing at him . `` Uncle George ! He was trying to smile at her . `` Gosh ! You shouldn be up , should you ? `` I -- I was just leaving here , Julie . I all set . Just about to call a taxi . She was wearing some sort of gray blazer . She seemed overly tall , her brow knitted in concern . `` Well , at least you won have to do that , she was saying . `` I about to leave myself . I l drop you off . `` You e leaving ? `` I going back to school , she answered . `` Pietro driving me . I just finishing breakfast . But have you told Mother you were going ? She asked him . `` No . I just don want anyone disturbed , Julie . That my wish . It quite a big one , he added . Her face seemed to float in an implausibly bright shaft of sunlight . `` Well , won you come in then , have a cup of coffee -- or something ? Or maybe a drink ? She asked , in a way that seemed oddly sophisticated , considerate , and yet perhaps partly scornful . He tried to see her face more clearly . `` No -- nothing at all , he said after a moment hesitation . `` I l just wait for you here . He leaned his head against the wood paneling behind him , but the vivid red images of pain inserted themselves against his eyelids . He raised them . Julia moved past . `` I have to say good-bye upstairs . I won be long . `` As a great favor , Julie , he said , `` please don mention you e seen me . `` Not to anyone ? `` No -- please . `` I l call your mother as soon as I get home . It l be so much easier . `` All right She was staring at him . `` I fine , Julie . Please , you just go ahead . She had disappeared . He could feel a pulse pounding against the bandages . He imagined Sam voice : `` George , what the hell goes on ? I wouldn have the strength to answer , he thought . Maybe I couldn have called a taxi . He could hear the footsteps overhead . He saw the suitcase , which Julia was holding . He stood up . `` I l take that , Julie -- for you . `` Oh no , she said . `` I can manage . She went ahead of him . Outside the Lincoln was parked . He could hardly believe he was getting in . Pietro was gazing at him in an insolent , disdainful fashion ; ut that didn matter . We l drop Mr . Rawlings off in Ardmore , Julia said , and for the merest second George was reminded of her father tone with servants . To the manner born -- odd to have such a thought at a time like this ; et her inflection seemed forced or rehearsed . He could not stop to analyze . He had never felt particularly close to her . Carrie seemed more affectionate , but obviously Julia had respected his request . He took her hand . `` I wish I didn have to go back to school , she said , and then , `` I wish you lived in New York . That in the opposite direction . `` I wish I did , he responded . `` I wish I wasn wearing this ridiculous costume , and that we could go to a theater together , or a nice restaurant , forget we knew He stopped speaking . `` Forget we ever knew what ? `` Oh , just sort of everything in general . She said nothing until Pietro had slackened their pace . `` I know you feel badly , but that sounds like such a queer thing for you to say . `` Does it ? He asked . `` Yes , perhaps . I supposed to joke about things , aren I ? But sometimes life can be rather a disappointing business . His voice seemed thick and purposeless . He relinquished her hand . He could see the stone building where he lived . Just a few more steps . Abruptly he reached into his pocket . Yes , there was the key . `` Are you positive you l be all right by yourself ? She asked him . For a moment he smiled . `` Yes , Julie dear . You e done me the greatest possible service . By myself I l be fine . `` Take care of yourself then . `` I will . You , also . Don work too hard . It was an automatic phrase ; s he crossed through the courtyard he regretted it . He should have discovered a more tender farewell . Someone shouted at him , `` Well ! Will you look at George Rawlings ! What happened to you ? `` I bumped into a door handle , George said . Someone laughed . George walked steadily ahead into his entry . His bandages seemed on fire . He had shut his door with the brass number screwed to it . In the kitchenette the raw whiskey made him gasp . Just one or two swallows , he told himself , enough to lessen some of the pain . He was telephoning . `` No , Millie , I home . No , really , right as rain . Tell Sam not to worry about the car . I l get it hauled away . No , please -- no visit today -- I l be asleep . For God sake , don worry . That upsets me more than anything . Yes , sure , I l see the doctor -- this evening , if you insist . There was one more call to make . `` Joan , did I wake you ? He asked . `` Yes , I thought you probably be up . Look , sweetheart , some fool was . Happened to be driving somewhat intoxicated last night . Unfortunately it turned out to be me , but I wouldn quite put it that way to the boss . Oh hell no , I not in a hospital . I won be in town for a couple of days , though , and there that case I was supposed to handle this afternoon . Too bad a jury isn involved . I might struggle in for a jury . I win hands down . But I thought maybe Tony Elliott could pinch-hit for me . He l understand -- you might give him sort of a tactful nudge . He got all the facts . I wouldn want to ask for a postponement -- it really just a routine thing . What ? No , darling I rather you didn come out . A smile pulled at the lower strip of adhesive tape . `` Don even send flowers . I l see you Wednesday . I l bribe you with a nice -- He was about to say `` double martini but thought better of it . `` I l take you out to dinner . Okay ? He had put down the receiver . A strange relationship between Joan Fulbright and himself . Who knew about it ? She lived alone in the older part of the city , in one of those renovated houses whose brick facade some early settler had constructed . She had two tiny rooms on the second floor . She was a clever girl , a most efficient secretary . She let him come and go as he pleased , or as it pleased her . In the office you might have thought them only casual friends ; et if he said : Make an excuse yourself , come out here today , she would have been on the next train -- and , similarly , if she had been in need , he would have gone to her . 
`` They make us conformists look good . `` That a peculiar way to think . It wasn just the obnoxious birds that had ruffled her own feathers , of course ; he knew that . It was Jim `` little sister Myra , the unreliable , irresponsible , forever flyaway , Myra . She a year older than I am , Lucy told herself . `` Come , come , Jim said , jollying Lucy a little . `` I love you . Susan ready ? Lucy listened . Obviously , Susan was not . Upstairs , busy feet , showering like raindrops , pattered around her room . Susan would be visiting her grandmother for only a few days , but even at seven she was a prudent soul ; he always packed for a lifetime , just in case . `` Not yet . Every doll in the house must be going with her . `` She better step on it . It a long way to Websterville . Jim fine young face was an expressive one , too ; s he looked at her , it registered anxiety . `` You know , he said . `` Myra wanted me to thank you for taking Cathy . It l be only a couple of weeks before she finds a home for them in Paris -- but even so , she wants you to know that she awfully grateful . Lucy did not believe him ; yra appreciated nothing . Jim had put the thanks in his sister mouth . `` Darling -- she said , and the single word mingled love and exasperation in an equal blend . `` She should have told me herself . And will it be only a couple of weeks ? Remember what happened the last time ? Leaving Cathy with them , Myra had gone out to the Coast for a supposedly brief visit ; ut she had stayed all winter , and Cathy had stayed all winter too -- with them . Lucy suspected that Myra would never have come home if Gregg , Myra husband , hadn gone out to fetch her . `` That was an awfully long two weeks . For an otherwise silent moment , Jim keys jingled nervously in his pocket . `` But she promised -- This will be different , he said at last . `` You e got to admit she was smart to scare up this fine government job over there -- she l get a home for herself and Cathy in no time . You l see , Myra settling down . On the defensive , he added , `` I wish you think what it must be like for her to be without Greg , to be a new widow , a young widow . `` It depends on the widow . Lucy had an idea that Myra loved it . And not for one moment did she believe that Myra had settled down . It seemed to Lucy that all their married life , she and Jim had been doing nothing but rescue his sister from the constant crises that were her way of life . Remembering that succession of disasters , she now considered Cathy , an ominous child-cloud on her horizon . It was not that she disliked Cathy . The youngster drew her , troubled her depths ; henever Lucy saw her , she tried , without noise or fuss , to give her the warmth she had never had from Myra . But Cathy was Myra responsibility , not hers . `` I wouldn even be surprised , she said unhappily , `` if Myra tried to leave her with us forever . Myra loved big cities ; housands of miles away -- in Paris , of all places -- she might forget she had ever been a mother . Lucy knew her too well to find it impossible . `` That a horrible thing to accuse her of ! Jim was so indignant it was obvious that no matter what he said , he too had seen the looming specter of a forever-Cathy . He went to the foot of the stairs and shouted up , fiercely , `` Susan ! Susan ! Get moving ! A startled piping sound returned . `` Don yell at Susan , Lucy said . Was it only a few nights ago that they had been standing together in front of the house looking at the moon-washed river ? Their arms around each other , they had been talking of the present and the future ; heir talk and their feeling had been as deep and warm , as steeped in light , as the air around them . Then , from within the still , sleeping house , the telephone had rung ; yra , with her news , was on the other end of the line . Jim turned back from the stairway and looked at her . His dark brows , which had been lowered in anger , smoothed . `` Please , he said . `` There isn a chance of Myra letting anything like that happen . Let stay friends . But they weren just friends , Lucy thought ; hey were husband and wife , and Myra had no right muddling and chilling their marriage . The only thing that had ever come between them was that worthless , selfish sister of his . Lucy was sick of it . `` Well , at last , she said , because Susan was clattering down the stairs . Susan looked like an overwhelmed baby nurse ; er arms were straining with a burden of dolls . `` I ready , she announced . `` Do you need that big bundle ? Jim said . His voice had sharp edges , as though he knew very well Lucy and he were not friends at the moment . `` All that junk ? Susan stared at him with hurt blue eyes that gushed an instant grief ; o her , each of her dolls was a real person with a living heart . `` Now , now , Lucy said , approaching Susan with a handkerchief , mopping skillfully . `` Your father didn mean it , Susan . She gave Jim a quick , shape-up look of warning . `` She l take every one of them . Jim groaned , but he lifted Susan suitcase and said , in a gentler tone , `` Sure -- the entire thousand . And when you get back from Grandma , Cathy will be here to play with you . Nice ? `` No , Susan said , grappling with her outsized armload of dolls with a Scrooge-like effect . And at this point , Lucy thought , there should be a lecture on little cousins ' sharing dolls -- but she could sympathize with Susan ; here ought to be a limit to sharing , too . That was one more reason she didn look forward to Cathy visit , short or long ; he last one had been a Lilliputian war . She suspected that Cathy had been competing with Susan for attention that she had never had . `` Well , Jim said , out of the silence , `` let get going , dolls and all . When the car , with Susan hands waving wildly from the rear window , disappeared down the driveway , Lucy stood looking after its pale dust . The day was brilliant around her -- flower-scented , crisp with breeze -- yet her inner turmoil darkened it . She had let Jim go with a chilly good-by , a chillier kiss . She was sorry , and angry at herself , because never in their life together had she done that . She turned and began to walk toward the house . At the feeding station , the raffish group of cowbirds again bobbed and gobbled over the ground , but now , gorgeous among them , was a beautiful red cardinal , radiant in its feathered vestments . The handsome bird was solitary ; ts mate must be at home , silently guarding their nest . She had better stay there , Lucy thought ; he sly female cowbirds took instant advantage of nests without sentinels . Well , Lucy ? She said to herself , abandoning the cardinals and the cowbirds . She had a day of things to do ; mong them , she had to prepare the guest room . How long would it be occupied ? She wondered , with a baffled feeling of helplessness . As long as the unscrupulous Myra chose ? For a moment , her mind returned again to the strange , flying world of birds , and she said to herself . It isn only birds that dump their children in other people nests . In the sunshine of late afternoon , Lucy stood looking at the ready guest room . There were new yellow curtains , bright as a child life ought to be , a new bedspread , lively with hopping rabbits , and hanging from the ceiling was an airy Mother Goose Mobile , spinning slowly in the breeze . A row of little hangers waited for a child clothes in the neatly empty closet ; ince Myra had always put most of Greg money on her own back , Lucy suspected that no more than a few of that long row would be needed . The closet was faintly fragrant with lavender , and as Lucy shut the door an unhappy memory slipped into her mind , like a lavender ghost : Greg house , on the day he was buried , and the child , pale , silent , baffled , watching the funeral guests with panicky eyes . Many times since his death that memory had worried and troubled her . Out in the hall , the upstairs phone shrilled , and the small ghost vanished . When she picked up the receiver , her mother cheerful voice was there . `` Websterville Junction calling , she said . `` I just thought I let you know . Myra dropped Cathy this morning , and Jim picked Cathy up and left Susan a few hours ago . I have phoned sooner but I e been busy . `` I can imagine ! Susan was an active character ; or Mother to be able to call , Susan must be napping now , surrounded by her multitude of dolls . Lucy drew out the chair and sat down ; he relaxed a little , and some of the tension went out of her . You could think yourself as grown up as Methuselah , yet the maternal voice still kept its comforting magic . `` How was Cathy ? `` Subdued . But Myra was the merriest widow I ever saw . On her way to the airport , on her way to Paris -- you bet , Lucy said to herself . `` I e been fixing up the guest room for Cathy . There was a momentary pause , and then her mother said , `` How long is she supposed to stay ? `` Just for a couple of weeks , till Myra finds a place for them . `` Well -- This time there was a long silence , while the telephone hummed faintly with a voiceless life . Puzzled , Lucy stared at the flowered wallpaper ; er mother was forthright ; he was not usually given to mysterious silences . Was she thinking along the same lines Lucy was -- that it was quite possible Cathy might be left with her for good ? `` You mean once Myra gets to Paris ? Once the soft , pretty moth found the bright light she had always wanted ? Suddenly , seekingly , Lucy asked , `` Mother , do you know something I don know ? Again there was that curious pause , and then her mother said , `` I guess I do . Just before Myra left -- She was saying good-by to Cathy , and she didn realize I was near . She hesitated , as though hunting over words and ways of putting them . `` Cathy was in tears , of course , and I heard Myra say , ' Now be good , and at Christmastime I l send you a wonderful present from Paris ' . Shocked speechless , Lucy sat there . Then she jumped to her feet , the elastic phone cord uncoiling like a black snake . `` Christmastime ! Then it was no bogey she had dreamed up ; t was only too true . Myra had no intention whatever of sending for Cathy in two weeks . For a moment , anger darkened the hallway about her , and when she found her voice , anger thickened it . `` That does it ! She said . `` I l keep Cathy for two weeks . Then , if Myra does nothing about fetching her , I l pack her right back to her mother -- if I have to take her myself ! Her hand tightened on the receiver . `` And that what I going to tell Jim . For Lucy , the day nagging to-and-fro had come to an abrupt end . As she hung up , she saw through the hall open window the purple-black flying of the cowbirds ' wings , and heard their grotesque singing . Cowbird Myra ! She not going to get away with it . Cathy is tired , Lucy thought , watching them come slowly up the path . The child thin legs were plodding . She trudged along slowly , both hands clutching a tired teddy bear . She was at the moment just a small , walking package , being delivered to her aunt and uncle house . Unlike Susan , she was traveling light ; he worn teddy bear , a tiny suitcase that Jim carried , and the clothes she wore , were all she had . Lucy glancing at the miniature case , knew there would not be enough in it for the shortest of stays ; hey would have to buy things for her . She opened the door . 
Unimpressed , the dog plopped on the sand . Quint couldn blame Maggie for disbelieving . For eleven days they done the same thing , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards . The swirling sand made Quint limp more pronounced . They walked slowly past the sherbet-colored cottages -- eleven lemon , nine mint , seven orange -- around the curve to a deserted stand with an `` Eats sign jiggling in the wind . Now they were in friendly territory . Nobody around . Nothing but sand and a ridge of rocks sloping jaggedly to the water edge . His rock was to the right of a V-shaped inlet , a big , brown , lumpy rock trailing seaweed whiskers . His rock was special because no one on the beach could see him here . Here he was enclosed and safe . ( If a dragon or a sea monster came along , didn he have a red Swiss hunting knife on his belt -- ten blades and a corkscrew ? ) Here was a perfect place to lie down and make believe . He was Canute controlling the waves . He was a knight of the Round Table , `` Sir Quintus the Brave , slaying evil spirits and banshees and vampires and witches with warty noses . ( One good thing about a suit of armor , his leg wouldn show . ) He was the first astronaut on the moon , chosen because of his small size and intrepid nature . He was six feet one like his father , with big hands and a hairy chest , a man the weak and persecuted would turn to . Fearless . Every night when he wanted a drink of water , didn he practice being fearless by not turning on the bathroom light ? A dark bathroom can be pretty scary , and he creep back to bed , proud of himself , thinking : Tomorrow , for sure , I l go down to the rock and keep my promise to Dad . He hadn intended to make the promise . It happened two weeks ago , the night before his father left on a business trip to South America . Every piece of the nightmare was clear , in place ; nd when he woke up , his father was saying , `` Stop screaming , Quint . It all right . Stop shaking . He could remember the feel of his father big hands , the thump of his father heart sending out signals -- regular , like radar . `` Let talk about the beach . Son . While I gone you get brown and fat as a pig , hear ? Look , I can put two fingers between the cords in the back of your neck . Dr . Fortman says swimming would help your leg . He says you e limping more than you need to . `` How does he know ? Big dumb nut . He never had polio . In the light from the bedside table his father looked so worried that the promise spilled out . `` You just wait , Dad . When you get back I l probly be swimming better than Victoria . Wait and see , Dad . Victoria was fourteen months younger than Quint , a head taller , and could lick any boy or girl on the beach . He called her `` Fatso . She called him `` Stuck-up -- that why nobody plays with you , Mister Stuck-up . Or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : `` Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised . `` She got a nerve . Quint said now to the clouds . Strength began to zip up and down his chest . He felt strong as a giant . He unlaced his high brown shoes and took off the metal brace on his leg . He wadded his sweat shirt into a ball and stripped down to his swimming trunks . `` Goolick , goooolick , creaked a sea gull . `` Aw , shut up , he said . He stood on the rock , a skinny , dignified boy surrounded by the ocean . The wind bored a hole between his shoulder blades , and when he looked at the choppy waves coming and going and crossing each other he could see his head down there , bleeding , wedged between the rocks and the waves . I can go in . I scared of the nightmare . Shivering , he put on his clothes . And shivering with shame , he crawled to the narrow end of the rock and spat into the water . `` Watch it , big shot , a hoarse voice yelled back . She was holding on to his rock with one hand . She smelled of peppermints . She wore a bathing suit like his mother , no straps on the shouders . `` Why didn you duck ? He snapped . `` This is my rock . `` Isn . `` Is . `` Isn . `` Is . She was sore as a boil . `` Ever hear of squatter rights ? `` Sure . They started with the Kansas-Nebraska Bill of eighteen -- `` Mister Big Britches , aren you ? `` I Mark Gordon Peters the Fifth . They call me Quint . `` Then why don you stop squinting ? `` I said Quint . That short for Quintus . Quintus in Latin means -- `` I can speak both kinds of Latin , smart aleck . Her cough sounded like cloth ripping . `` You shouldn smoke so much , he said , unconsciously imitating Victoria holier-than-thou voice . `` I don smoke . She was horrified . `` Do you ? `` Hell , yes . Not having said `` hell before , he stumbled a bit before gathering momentum . `` Sometimes eleven , fourteen a day . `` If I was your mama , I wop your tail off . `` My mother never wops me . I e got this leg brace . She seemed so unimpressed that he was obliged to roll up his blue jeans so she could see his brace . `` Dingy-looking , was what she said . `` Why don you paint it red and white like a barber pole ? `` Because maybe I won have to wear it always . Dr . Fortman says if I exercise my leg more , maybe I can use a cane when I big . She spouted a mouthful of water into the air . `` A cane mighty handy . Someone walking past , you want to stop him , zoooop , snag him around the neck with the crook in your cane . Or say a waiter brings you a bowl of soup with a dead fly in it -- all you got to do is bannnnnng , stooooomp your cane on the floor . Hey , will you look at that ? Maggie had shaken himself awake and was licking the sand off his stubby whiskers and his long plume of a tail . `` That some dog . What kind ? `` Part collie , part wire-haired terrier . Quint glared . He always did when people asked . `` Holy mackerel , that the most unique dog I ever saw , she said firmly . `` His real name DiMaggio , only we call him Maggie because he has to take tranquilizers . He braver than he looks . He been sick lately . Last Tuesday he went on a ham jag . `` A what ? He would have told her , but Victoria was yodeling . That meant `` Mama wants you Quint . Come home or I l come find you . `` I gotta go . Even though this is my rock , you can use it sometimes . I come early in the morning . `` So do I . See you around , Mister Squint . That was how they started being friends . They met next morning and all the mornings thereafter . Same time , early , before the fog burned off , because she didn like the sun ; t made her blister . Her name was Sabella , and the strip of seaweed around her neck was an emerald necklace the King gave her as a token of his undying love . `` You going to marry the King ? `` No . He got a long beard and picks his teeth with a fork . My hair is what he nuts about . Naturally curly hair runs in my family . Personally , I prefer straight hair like yours , but as they say on the Continent , ' What can one do ' ? `` Which continent ? `` Name one , I been there . Japan , she said , smelled pugh because people let dead fish lie on the beaches till the fish got hard as rocks ; hen they scraped off the mold and made fish soup . Pugh . Camels in Tripoli had harelips . Near Galway the tinkers drove their caravans down to the beach and sang and drank and fought all night . As for dancing -- holy mackerel , he ought to see the gypsies in Jerez ; hey danced on the sand till your blood got hot and danced with them . `` Really . Quint smothered a yawn . She made better pictures than any book he read , but he didn say so . Artfully , as the days went by , he found occasion to tell her that his father had won the Navy Cross in the Korean War ; hat his baby sister could spit up through her nose when she felt like it ; hat he personally had an IQ of 141 and was currently reading the Mushr to Ozon volume of the encyclopedia . `` Books are for schnooks . She skipped a piece of water at him and laughed , a funny , hoarse laugh he liked to hear . Nobody ever appreciated his jokes as much as Sabella . ( `` What did one tonsil say to the other tonsil ? Let get dressed up -- the doctor taking us out tonight . And `` What time did the Chinaman go to the dentist ? Tooth-hurty . ) Encouraged by her giggles he imitated Maggie who was crazy about ham . He described the ham decorated with pineapple and cherries , cooling on the porch . He snuck up on the ham like Maggie , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick , while his mother said , `` That does it . That dog has to go . `` Say , you e quite a comic , Sabella said admiringly . `` Ever thought about going on the stage ? He hadn . But it was such a nice thought that he nodded his head . `` Either that or a veterinarian . `` Better make up your mind , son , Sabella said . `` You can serve cod and salmon . Sometimes they argued . She said sharks have no bones and shrimp swam backward . His encylopedia agreed with Sabella . Next morning he tied a bunch of sea daisies with string and threw them across the V-shaped inlet to the rock where she was swimming around . Boy , could she catch ! Like Willie Mays in the outfield . `` Nobody gave me flowers before . Thank you , Quint . Her face turned pink with pleasure and a smothered cough . `` You can always tell a real gentleman -- they got a certain je ne say quok . Sometimes they didn talk at all . He daydreamed on the rock while she swam and splashed around . Once when she asked why he never went swimming and he answered , `` Don feel like it , he was tempted to tell her about being scared . But Victoria began yodeling just then and he went home , carrying Sabella in the back of his head , not thinking about her , just knowing she was there , smiling , smelling of peppermints . As for his promise -- oh , he had plenty of time , buckets of time . Wednesday morning it happened . They were eating breakfast . `` We beseech thee , Lord Gord , to bless this food -- that was Victoria saying grace while the baby sprayed raisin toast on her plastic bib . Same old breakfast till the phone rang , making his mother voice shake with excitement . `` Your Daddy in San Francisco , she told them . `` He says he l be here on the one-o lock plane . Fifteen days early -- isn that wonderful ? `` Yeah , keen . A cave seemed to be opening in Quint stomach . `` Children , we l have to get organized . The baby can have an early nap . Victoria , I want you to -- Quint closed the screen door quietly so Maggie wouldn be scared . `` Hurry up , we e late , he said , noticing with a chill how gray the sky was this morning , the fog like a rope along the horizon , the choppy waves sending off sheets of blue and Kool-Aid green . The cave in his stomach hurt . He had to go into the water . He tell Sabella about the nightmare . It had started two years ago when he was in an iron lung . What caused it , he didn know . The metal collar gagging his neck ? Sweating so much ? The unbearable weight on his chest ? All of it together meant drowning . The first time the nurse took him out of the lung , she said if he got frightened , she put him back for a second . 
When Bobbie Evans smashed up his car , the Jaguar his wife Linda had given him for his last birthday , and himself quite thoroughly with it , driving back from an afternoon golf at Oakmont , it seemed to mark the end of a long , miswritten chapter in the social life of the community . Linda looked remote yet lovely in black , and everyone held his or her breath . Not that Linda was heartless , not that she would do anything prematurely or in bad taste any more than John Cooper would . Hadn Linda been a perfect wife to Bobbie , who was the least bit of a disappointment all these years ? Wasn John Cooper even more attractive at forty-seven than he had been twenty-five years earlier ? And wasn John wife , Edythe , even more appalling , if possible ? Didn John Cooper , after all this time , deserve something better of life ? Wasn it adult and realistic to look at it that way ? And romantic ? Everybody knew that John Cooper had married Edythe on the rebound . It was the kind of thing that could ruin a man life , and it was a tribute to John strength of character and very real business ability that it hadn ruined his . `` Of course , there was nothing you could do , but you still ought to be ashamed of yourself for letting it happen , Mousie Chandler said to Linda Stuart . `` Poor John ! Linda accepted the reproach , which was something she did rarely in all her life and most rarely in that summer of 1936 when she was by all odds the prettiest and brightest young woman west of the Allegheny Mountains , and John was surely one of the handsomer and brighter young men around Pittsburgh . For it had been John and Linda ever since she had come out two seasons before at the Golf Club to the goggle-eyed admiration not only of the stag line but even of her fellow debs . John had claimed her from the stag line , a young man a year out of Dartmouth with skiing crinkles still around his eyes . You saw them always together those years . You talked about John-and-Linda as an entity . John-and-Linda were at Longue Vue last night ; ohn-and-Linda drove to Conneaut in three and a half hours . Then there was a spat over something , as there had been lovers ' spats before ; nly this one didn heal . You still said `` John-and-Linda , but as if you were speaking of a national catastrophe such as the depression or Dillinger . It got worse instead of better . First , it came out after Mr . Cooper will was settled -- he had died the year before -- that John and his mother weren rich any more . And then there was Linda engagement to Bobbie Evans . There was no connection between the two events , because Bobbie wasn rich , either , though he was more aggressive than John . He was a bright and handsome young man from New York , who worked for the same steel company as John did . Some people said Linda had just announced the engagement to jolt John into some action , but when John came home from a business trip to Cleveland with Edythe , with Edythe his bride , it could no longer be John-and-Linda even to sentimental wishful thinkers . It wasn even John and Edythe . It was simply Poor John . There was nothing specifically wrong with Edythe , but there was absolutely nothing right about her either . Mousie Chandler had been to school with her someplace near Baltimore and tried to explain rather than defend her to the gang having lunch at Horne . `` Well , you shouldn underestimate Edythe , Mousie said . `` I know she gives the impression of being shallow and frivolous and scatterbrained . She is frivolous and scatterbrained , but she really isn shallow . Bobbie and Linda looked magnificent at their wedding . John was at the church with Edythe . She giggled during the ceremony , and Mousie Chandler , who was one of Linda bridesmaids , said John glared black as death at her . `` As if he were choking , she said . `` Poor John ! Edythe settled down to become a social myth and a horrible example . Her hair never seemed to be in place and her skirts were never quite the correct length . She didn have a bad shape when you caught her at the pool at Longue Vue , but her bathing suits were far from smart . And you didn see her much at Longue Vue or anywhere , for John had drifted away from the gang . Mousie said it was because he was too proud to stand pity . Others thought he couldn stand seeing Linda , Mrs . Bobbie Evans , still so beautiful , so much in command of everything . There were less-dramatic reasons too . John mother died not long after his marriage , and there was even less Cooper money left . John sold the big old place in Sewickley and bought a smaller house in Fox Chapel . He was not reduced to poverty , but his job at the steel company had become a real job and not a method of passing the day . John was good at his job . It probably wasn hard for him to keep his nose to the grindstone with nothing but Edythe to come home to . Though that may be unfair since Ben Cooper , John first son , came along early in 1938 , the cutest baby you ever saw and a blessing that he looked all Cooper from fontanel to pink toes , nary a trace of Edythe . But the continuing charm of the other children -- Sally in 1940 and Jack in 1944 -- and all John success at his work only made Edythe dizziness and general uselessness more glaring . She never could fit into a crowd which had known , which still knew and admired Linda . When there was bridge at Edythe house , the cards shuffled like wet graham crackers and the food probably was wet graham crackers . She managed a missionary drive for the church once and got the books so confused that old Mr . Webber , the eldest elder , who never donated more than five dollars to anything , had to cough up five hundred dollars to avoid a scandal in what Edythe called `` the bosoms of the church . John did find the missing checks and money afterward , and the drive was actually oversubscribed , which was a real bit of luck for the missionaries . Being an intelligent man , John must have guessed what everyone thought about Edythe , but he never let on by so much as a brave smile . Poor John was the kind of stock that keeps a bargain without whimpering and maybe bends over backward to keep a bad one . He was an attentive and generous husband , overgenerous , a lot of people felt , because they knew that money must be a problem to him . But he got ahead in business : on leave from his job to an important Washington assignment during the war ; fter the war back to the heir apparency of the steel company . The Coopers saw Bobbie and Linda socially , but no more than was necessary . Bobbie had been successful , too , though he didn match John pace , and after all he didn need to , with all the Stuart money . He and Linda settled down to being social leaders , and Linda managed to look a little more beautiful each year . And then came the hairpin turn , the smashed Jaguar and Linda , mourning alone and lovely . Everyone held his or her breath . `` Don think Linda couldn have got John back any time , if she tried , Mousie Gordon , who had been Mousie Chandler , said between bites of a chicken sandwich at a luncheon table at Le Mont . `` Now you know she could e , but she isn that kind of girl . But now -- well , it would be a blessing , I think . Poor John . Linda Evans felt more wretched than she had ever dreamed Bobbie death could move her to feeling . What she felt was a bone-deep loss with a sense of waste to it , not so much sorrow for handsome , ambitious Bobbie , but for the lost years that had been brought into high relief by his death . She knew what people were thinking ; t was what she had been thinking herself . It was up to her to save Poor John , dear John , to undo the wrong she had done , but she trembled at the decision as at the brink of a cold stream . There was no one who would blame her or John ; he could be sure of that . It might be rough on Edythe at first , but Linda and John between them could make a settlement handsome enough to soothe her , to send her back to Cleveland or anywhere . And Linda felt capable of capturing the affection of the children , anxious even , since she and Bobbie had had none of their own . It would be good for them to have a mother they need not be ashamed of . Linda would have to wait , she knew . But what was a decent six months or so after the more than twenty years gone by ? Years of watching while Poor John struggled without the help and understanding of the kind of wife a man needed to get ahead . Of course , he had done wonders . Alloy steels and regular steels had different sales departments at Smith & MacIsaacs , where John and Bobbie both worked . Bobbie had been head of the alloy division , while John was just another good salesman in the regular branch . So when old Mr . Lovejoy , the company president , talked about putting in a single sales manager for both branches after the head of the regular steels had gone with Carnegie-Illinois , it looked like the perfect chance for Bobbie . For Linda knew how to help her husband , not just the Stuart-family contacts but also the little dinners for Reuben Lovejoy . She was almost sick when Bobbie came home with the news that Poor John had won the job . `` What did you do ? She asked Bobbie . `` You must have done something , something wrong . Lord knows I had everything set for you . Bobbie said something about damned Pittsburghers sticking together , and Linda got angry at him . They had their first real fight , and Bobbie went off to get drunk . Linda dragooned her uncle , Donald Murkland , into a lunch the next day to find out what had happened . He was a director of S . & M . and must have been in on the decision . But jolly old Uncle Donald would tell her no more than that Bobbie had certainly been considered for the job , but there were factors in a large company which outsiders and even some insiders couldn understand . He didn tell her of the long board meeting where Bobbie and John were weighed one against the other . `` I behind John Cooper , Mr . Lovejoy said finally . `` I think we e agreed that he and Evans are equal in ability , so we have to look at the thing in terms of incentive . `` Now , I believe Poor John l work just a little harder . With that wife of his , I think he feels every chance he gets is his big chance . Bobbie , with Linda behind him , will have plenty of other opportunities . And also , the money can mean as much to Bobbie . `` Bobbie will take the job as his just reward and work hard at it ; oor John will take it as a miracle and have every other independent steel company sitting up nights worrying about us . Most of the directors nodded . Uncle Donald Murkland found himself nodding agreement too . After the surprise was over , Linda was almost as pleased as anyone with John good luck , though she agreed with Bobbie decision some months later to move to Funk Furnaces . The job at Funk wasn particularly better , but it got him away from being subordinate to John and assured him steady advancement , since Funk was owned to a large degree by various branches of Linda family . Poor John rise continued to be meteoric . When he was made a vice president only a year after the new sales job , a leading business magazine ran his photograph with a brief biography in a series on national business leaders of the future . 
She called then to say she had a baby-sitter for that night . `` Shirley appreciated the chance to make some money . Such a nice little thing -- lives right in the building . `` That swell , I said sweetly . I could get along without that three dollars . In some ways it was worth being out the money -- just knowing I was no longer obligated to Nadine ! It was past midnight and we were in bed when the phone rang . I stumbled through the hall , wondering who would be calling at this hour . I answered to find Nadine at the other end . `` You scared me half to death , I said shakily . `` What wrong ? `` Janice , nobody answers at the apartment ! Her voice came shrill . `` I absolutely frantic ! That stupid girl might have gone off and left Francie ! `` Oh , she wouldn do that , I said . `` She probably fallen asleep and doesn hear the phone . But if you e worried you can go home and check -- `` I can leave the party ! We e at Ken Thom apartment , and when one couple leaves early everything falls flat ! Old Mr . Thom is already down on Wally , and we simply can afford to get Ken mad at us -- I was all set for what came next . `` Janice , could you possibly go over and make sure everything all right ? I l call you there in ten minutes -- `` I can make it in ten minutes -- Wondering , as I said it , why I should make it at all . Why should I go over at midnight to check on Francie , when her parents didn care enough to leave a party ? `` Fifteen minutes , then ! Please , Janice . I l be glad to pay you -- So sure that money could do anything ! `` All right , I said . I do it . Not for the dollar or so Nadine would give me . But because there was the chance that something had gone wrong at the apartment , and if I didn go over , who would ? Chris was sound asleep , and I didn see any sense in waking him . I dressed in the kitchen , then left a note on the table telling him what had happened . I drove off through the cool darkness to Nadine apartment and rang the bell , and in a few seconds a young girl opened the door . Her face was flushed from sleep . `` It all right , I said , as she started to look scared . `` Mrs . Roberts had called , and couldn wake you . I just came over to make sure everything was all right . `` I -- hard to wake up , she faltered . She didn look over thirteen . And Nadine insisted that her sitters be reliable ! `` I have to get up early for church tomorrow , she went on . `` I didn know it was going to be this late ! The phone started ringing . `` That Mrs . Roberts again , I said . `` I l answer it . I crossed the beautifully furnished living room to the pale yellow phone . I told Nadine everything was fine , and that I be getting on home . `` Janice , would you mind staying ? There was a ragged edge to her voice now , as if she been crying . `` Wally drunk -- I l get him out of here as soon as I possibly can , but I don want Shirley to see him like this . You know how gossip of that sort spreads through an apartment building -- Not a word of thanks for what I already done . The receiver clicked in my ear . She didn even give me a chance to refuse . Well , there wasn any law that said I had to stay ! But then I looked at Shirley and thought that I might as well -- the child needed her sleep , and Heaven knew what kind of a mess it would be , with Wally coming home drunk . So I told her Mrs . Roberts would pay her in the morning , and she scooted off to her own apartment . After I looked in at Francie , I went into the living room and waited . I must have dozed off , because I came to with a start at the sound of voices . Nadine , shrill with anger -- Wally loud and thick -- As I went to the door I heard the clock strike two . I opened the door , and Wally stumbled in -- fast -- as if Nadine had pushed him . I had always thought she was so beautiful . But now she looked ugly . Her skin was stretched so tight that her cheekbones stuck out , and if looks could kill , Wally would have been dead . `` Pack your clothes , she hissed . `` Pack -- and get out ! `` You e crazy , Wally said thickly . He lurched and stumbled to the davenport and sank down on it , and was instantly asleep . Nadine strode over to him , and her pointed nails raked across his face . I grabbed her arm and she turned on me and for a scared second I thought that maybe Wally was right , and she was crazy . `` You stay out of this , she spat at me . `` He ruined us -- do you hear me -- he ruined us ! He insulted Ken Thom ! Her eyes were wild . `` He told Ken to his face that he doesn have what it takes to get a woman ! And the other people there were listening ! We e ruined and he going to get out if I have to throw him down the stairs -- `` you better simmer down , I said nervously . I was plenty scared . In the state she was in , she could actually kill him ! `` Now you just take it easy , and I l make you some tea -- `` Tea , Nadine screeched . `` How can you be so damn stupid ? Wally lost his job ! Ken will never forgive him -- never ! And we don have any money -- we don have a dime ! All we own is Francie bedroom set and the televison-record player and we even owe on them . And we l be poor and have to live in a grubby little house like yours -- and all because of that -- I clamped my hand over her mouth to stop the stream of filth . `` Stop that ! You l wake up the whole building . Wally can go any place at this hour -- `` Well then , I l get out -- But she looked uncertain . She was coming to her senses enough to realize that you don go traipsing off anywhere at two in the morning . `` You go to bed , I said curtly . `` In the morning you and Wally can talk things out -- She collapsed against me , as if everything inside her snapped . I got her into bed , and sat with her until she had sobbed herself out . It was three o lock before I figured it was all right to go . I left her , a limp bundle of self-pity , shivering with terror because her bubble had burst around her . Wally was snoring on the davenport . I had done all I could . I had done all I was going to do . Whether or not Wally lost his job was no concern of mine . I drove home , found Chris still asleep . I snuggled up close to him -- loving him -- thankful for a man like him . Thankful I wasn Nadine . I kept on being thankful . In the afternoon Nadine and Wally came over with Francie . Wally sat in our big chair , his hands between his knees , looking ready to cry . `` I had all this trouble with the old man , that why I drank so much . I -- got fired yesterday for not attending to business -- Old Mr . Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and couldn get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired . Seems that the kid Wally had hired had a repair business of his own going on the side . Mr . Thom had gotten Wally on the phone , and fired him . `` I thought I smooth things over through Ken , Wally said miserably . `` But Ken got coy and wouldn make any promises . And I was plastered and I blew my stack -- `` And told him right to his face he never slept with a woman ! I tried to quiet Nadine because the children were there . But she was beyond caring what she said . `` Things may smooth over yet , Chris said , his nice lean face grave with honest concern . But I couldn help thinking that Nadine and Wally were getting just what they deserved . Now maybe they realize that life can be tough . When A bubble breaks , there nothing . Little by little , during the week , Chris and I discovered the crazy unbelievable way Nadine and Wally had lived . They had not only spent every cent -- they were in debt up to their necks , owing on everything they owned . On top of everything else they were two months behind on their apartment rent , and the day Wally received written notice that he was fired , they were evicted . Worst of all , Wally had no training for any kind of work . He had fallen into a soft job , and now the job was gone and he was stranded . Chris fretted . `` I wish we were in a position to offer a little money to tide them over . I said I wished we were , too . It was easy enough to say it , because of course we couldn spare a cent . But Chris brightened up like a candle . `` I glad you feel that way , honey . There is one big way we can help them . We can let them move in with us -- Something I had simply never thought of . Something so incredible -- I just stared at him . It was incredible -- He gave me an embarrassed , pleading look . `` I know we be pretty crowded . But it would only be for a couple of weeks -- until they get straightened out . Straightened out -- They had years of making all that money ! `` I won do it , I said flatly . `` Nadine was always too good to live in a little house like this ! Well , now she can sleep in the street for all I care ! `` That isn like you , Janice , Chris said uncomfortably . Then I felt uncomfortable , too . I didn want to be like that , mean and bitter . But , darn it all , why should we help a couple of spoiled snobs who had looked down their noses at us ? But , in the end , we did . It just seemed as if there was nothing else to do . The finance company took all their furniture -- and they didn have a cent to their name . Then Wally got sick . To my way of thinking , he was scared sick . His luck had failed him , and it was easier to crawl off into bed than to get out and fight the world . Chris made trip after trip in our old car , moving the clothes and dishes and the stock of groceries Nadine had bought on special . At least we l eat , I thought grimly as I put all the food away . While I worked , Nadine sat and cried . When she wasn crying , she was in our bedroom fighting with Wally . `` Virus infection nothing , she scream at him . `` You e too lazy to go out and look for another job . You e just a no-good bum ! It was a mess , all right . But it couldn go on forever -- A couple of weeks , Chris had said . I figured I could stand practically anything for a couple of weeks . But the two weeks dragged into three , and they were still with us . Nadine constant nagging had finally gotten Wally out of bed . He set out every morning looking for work , and come home around noon , full of alibis and excuses . Wendell Thom had black-balled him . Nobody would even take his application . `` You can get something , Nadine would snap . `` You can get a job working in a grocery store , if nothing else . `` The high school kids have got everything sewed up , he said , a whine in his voice . `` Those damn punks -- taking work away from men who need it . `` By fall they l be back in school , I say , trying to sound encouraging . But this was only the middle of July . And I couldn take six more weeks of this . I mentioned it to Chris one stifling hot night , when I had slipped outside for a breath of fresh air . 
I don really believe in intuition . But I swear to you from the moment I opened my eyes , I knew it was going to be a bad day . Part of it was the weather , so foggy it would take me twice as long to get to the hospital . Part of it was being so tired -- I not only had my usual full day yesterday , but a dinner meeting as well , that kept me up late . But the rest of it , the main part , wasn based on logic at all . It was just going to be one of those days . For the thousandth time , I wished I chosen some nice , nine-to-five , five-days-a-week profession . And for the thousandth time , I answered myself . I hadn chosen medicine -- it had chosen me . Actually , I shouldn complain , I told myself in the shaving mirror . I had a lot to be thankful for . A profession that brought me as good an income as mine wasn to be sneezed at . Maybe I didn see as much of Gladdy as I like , but how much worse it would have been if I had to board her out somewhere after Alice went -- send my daughter to an orphanage or a boarding-home . At least , we were together and we had Mrs . Hodges , bless her , to look after us -- no mother could be fonder of Gladdy than Mrs . Hodges was . I was lucky in lots of ways , no doubt about it . Especially in the way Gladdy had turned out . Growing up without a mother from the time she was three -- it wasn a good thing for a child , even knowing the kind of mother Alice had been . But I mustn start on Alice . She is a closed book , a picture I keep on my bureau , but never look at . If she kept on as she been going , the story I told Gladdy would probably have been true by now , anyhow As usual , Gladdy bright smile greeted me at the breakfast table . Her first class wasn until ten , but she always got up to have breakfast with me . It made me feel good and knowing that she decided , all on her own , to go to college right here in town made me feel good , too . Oh , I knew that I couldn give myself all the credit for her decision . I had a feeling that young Pete Michelson , the most promising intern at Fairview , had something to do with it , too . She been out with Pete the night before and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little . But once I was alone again , driving to the hospital , the heaviness returned . If she and Pete were really getting serious , I have to do some hard thinking . Should I tell him the truth about Alice ? Did he have a right to know the secret I kept from Gladdy all these years ? The boys were already waiting in the corridor outside my office when I got to Fairview . Two interns and Dick Ishii , the other resident . I Chief of Medicine here and this morning would start like all others , with me taking the boys on the rounds . Pete was down on Seven , Dick told me , and he meet us there . There wasn anything of special interest that morning , no one sicker than they should have been . Pete came to meet us when we stepped out of the elevator on Seven -- he had a case of post-operative shock , but it was all taken care of now . Seven is a women floor and , as it happened , not very busy right then . When we finished our regular rounds , Pete pointed me toward the small ward at the end of the floor . `` Got a new one in last night , he said . `` I haven seen her yet , but I hear she a lulu ! I wasn surprised . The ward was a small one , four beds , kept reserved for female alcoholics . We didn get many at Fairview and they were never pretty sights . It was thought wiser to keep them segregated from the patients in the regular charity ward . The moment I walked in , the whole miserable feeling of the day seemed to focus on the woman in the bed . They cleaned her up some , of course , and she pretty much slept off her drunk . But there was something about her -- and I felt my lips forming a name . Alice But this woman name was Rose Bancroft ! I looked at the chart for reassurance . Yes , Rose Bancroft , diagnosis : acute alcoholism . She looked about sixty , though I recalled that the chart gave her age as forty-four . An ugly scar disfigured the somewhat familiar puffy face , already marred by the tell-tale network of broken red veins that heavy drinkers carry . Her coarse hair was two-colored -- bleached blonde and its real , dirty gray . Oh , could it be ? No , no it was an unfortunate resemblance , that was all it was , and I turned to Dick , forcing myself to put my disquiet out of my mind . In a low voice , Dick filled us in she been picked up downtown , passed out in the doorway . Although quiet when they brought her in , she suddenly turned violent and had to be knocked out . It was the old story . We keep her a day or two , and the AA people would talk to her . But if she wasn interested , she just go back to the same life she left . Turning toward the patient again , I -- I can describe what happened to me then , except to say that I felt sick . I tell you , it took every ounce of control I had to be able to speak . `` Now , Miss -- or is it Mrs . Bancroft ? I never liked going straight into an examination with patients -- it relaxes them , I e always thought , to chat first . This was one time I have gladly broken my own rule , but habit was too strong . `` Hey ! Her voice was flat and dull . But those penetrating eyes -- I had to turn my head away . It was then that I saw what the drawn-back covers revealed . There were bloodspots on the sheet . `` What this ? I asked . `` Your period ? She shook her head . `` I been spotting a little now and then , she said quietly , no emotion in her voice . `` Have you spoken to a doctor about it ? Once again , there was a negative shake . I told Miss Groggins to move her down the hall where we had an examining table . `` Better do a Papanicolaou , I told Pete . It was only a few moments before Miss Groggins had her in the proper position for a vaginal , but I couldn see anything wrong on gross examination . Pete stood by with a slide and took the smear , sent it down to the lab with a request for the test . That done , I told Miss Groggins to take her patient back to bed and again put her out of my mind . I was busy the rest of the day . Late in the afternoon , I was up on Seven again . One of my private patients was being admitted and I went in to see her settled . On my way to the elevator , I ran into Pete . `` I e got the results on the Bancroft smear test , he said . `` There something there , all right . Class Three , they said . Do you want to talk to her , Doctor ? `` Well -- I didn -- I didn ever want to see that woman again . But that was ridiculous , of course . `` All right . We l do a D . and C . and get her permission for a hysterectomy . Maybe it nothing , maybe it intraepithelial or in situ -- can take any chances . `` If you can keep her here that long , Pete said wryly . `` Groggins tells me she started badgering already , wants to get out . Wants to get to her booze , I guess . I grimaced in distaste . `` Well , better see what I can do . We been standing right outside Miss Bancroft door and as I went to turn the knob to enter , I was surprised to find that the door was slightly ajar . But she seemed to be dozing and in any case , we been talking in low tones . Her eyes opened as soon as she heard me , though , and once again , I felt an inward shiver . `` I sure can complain about the service in this place , she said . `` I just got through seeing one of you guys . What do you want ? There was something almost insulting in her tone , but I disregarded it . `` I e just been talking to Dr . Michelson , I said . `` We like you to have a dilatation and curettage . That quite minor , nothing to worry about . But we would like your permission to do -- that is , to go further if it proves necessary . `` No . It was flat , definite . `` Suppose you let me explain . Actually , I rather doubt that we l have to do this . Even if we do , you l be out of here in a week , probably . I was sure that was the difficulty -- she just didn want to stay here , where she couldn get to the liquor . `` No . I looked at her in amazement . I had patients who refused surgery before , of course , but never one who didn show , in one way or another , the reason why . Mostly , it was fear , but this woman voice didn tremble and her hands were still on the coverlet . `` Will you tell me why ? I asked . She smiled , a smile without humor . `` You shouldn tell your little secrets outside of the patient door , she said . `` I e got cancer , haven I ? She went on , disregarding my protests . `` I not going to be one of your guinea pigs . Let your pupils learn on someone else , Doctor . Just let me die in peace . I stared at her , almost speechless . Her little speech was totally out of character with the sort of person I thought she was . Even her voice had taken on a more cultivated tone . This was someone who come down in the world , I thought . A long , long way down . Again there was something familiar about her , something -- `` You haven got cancer , I said as strongly as I could . `` I don know what you heard that would make you think so , but I assure you I don even know myself , so how can you be so sure ? And even if -- `` Don give me a lot of talk , Joe . I gaped at her . She could have found out my first name , of course -- that wouldn be difficult . But there was that something , some echo in the way she spoke . She was watching me intently , a funny little half-smile on her lips . `` Surprised , baby ? Guess I e changed , haven I ? But you haven changed much , Joe . I knew then , knew with a heart-stopping shock . `` Alice -- I stammered through dry lips . `` Alice , for goodness sake -- `` Alice , she echoed mockingly . `` What the matter , Joe , you scared of me ? Think I going to make you introduce a drunk as your wife ? Well , don worry . Just let me outta here -- `` But why did you come back ? I found my voice . `` Where have you been all these years ? She shrugged . `` Here and there . As for coming back here -- well , I l tell you the truth , I didn even know where I was when I came to . The last thing I remember is a bar in San Diego -- The way she spoke , her flat acceptance of her alcoholic blackout , made me shudder . And this was Gladdy mother ! `` I never asked you for any favors , Joe , she went on , `` but I asking one now . Let me outta here ! You doctors are all alike -- all you want is to cut up people and what the good ? No , I want out , Joe ! I looked at the pathetic wreck of a woman before me . Let her out , let her out -- that would be the solution , wouldn it ? What she said was true -- in all these years , she never asked for anything from me . If I let her go , she disappear once more . And Gladdy would be safe ! 
